Stay in touch!
There are many ways to stay in touch with HTW Berlin. By attending a Career Services course or passing on your practical knowledge to the next generation of students during a teaching assignment, for instance.
Alumni
Register to theHTW Berlin Alumni Network!
You can get advice on embarking on a career and starting a business even after graduation. OurCareer Servicesare available to you up to a year after the end of your studies, while you can access the services of the Startup Competence Centre for five years after graduating.
Associate lecturers are a key pillar of teaching activities at HTW  Berlin. Around 800 people offer courses on a wide variety of topics on a  fee basis. If you would also like to pass on your knowledge to  students,current vacancies for lecturer(in German) are published on the HTW Berlin website.
Pass on your professional experience to students! Either at thePraxisTag(in German), where a student accompanies you for a working day. You can also give students an insight into your work at an event organised by theCareer Servicesor theEntrepreneurship team.
In addition, you can use your contacts at HTW Berlin to recruit young professionals for your company. You canpublish your job offersin the vacancies section of the Career and Alumni Portal.
Yourdonation to HTW Berlin(in German) actively supports science and academe.
HTW Berlin is regularly on the search for reinforcements. Find out about  the advantages of being employed at our university on the website"Working at HTW Berlin!".Current vacanciesare advertised in the vacancies section.
Companies can get involved in theDeutschlandstipendium programmeby funding a scholarship or a scholarship package for students.
Become a member of theHTW Berlin Friends Association(in German): Your membership fee supports the provision of material resources for  degree programmes and the graduate prize awarded to the top-performing  graduates in HTW Berlin’s five faculties. Personal involvement is also  possible - by organising lecture events and excursions or in terms of  networking.
Please contact the Student Service Centre at HTW Berlin forcertificates, replacement copies and certified copies of your transcripts. Most services are subject to a fee.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service