Current information on how to reach our campus locations
Table of contents
Full closure of the junction at the Wuhlheide
Since 19 May 2025, the crossing under the bridge at Wuhlheide has been completely closed because the bridge is in danger of collapsing.
The closure applies to everyone, whether on foot, by bike, scooter or car. This important junction is also impassable for trams. The M17, 21, 27 and 37 tram lines are affected.
This means that the direct connection between our two campuses is interrupted and some major detours are necessary.
Further information:
Disruption reports from the BVG
Travellingfrom Schöneweide S-Bahn station to Campus Wilhelminenhofis possible as usual by tram. In addition to lines 60 and 67, line 27 will also run to Campus Wilhelminenhof during the closure of the crossing under the bridge. Please expect a higher volume of traffic on Wilhelminenhofstraße due to diverted traffic.
Thejourney to Campus Treskowallee is possible as usual via U-Tierpark or S-Karlshorst. The tram runs from both stops to Campus Treskowallee.
Theconnection between the two campuses is problematic: there is no tram service between the stops S-Karlshorst and Wilhelminenhofstr./Edisonstr. Even those travelling on foot or by bike have to take detours.
A replacement service between Wilhelminenhofstr./Edisonstr. and Blockdammweg has now been set up. From Blockdammweg you can then continue by tram. However, very long journey times are to be expected.
To get from one campus to the other, we therefore recommend the route through the Wuhlheide by bike, for example with theNextbike rental bikes or the HTWheels.
Construction work on the U5 planned from 30 June 2025
Construction work on the U5 is planned from 30 June until probably the beginning of September 2025. The section between the U Frankfurter Allee and U Biesdorf Süd stops will be affected.
A replacement service will be set up between U Frankfurter Allee and U Tierpark. A shuttle service is planned between U Tierpark and U Biesdorf-Süd.
We recommend travelling to the Treskowallee campus via the S Karlshorst stop.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service