Trainees
Trainees in 2025
Start your career with us!
We are offering traineeships for administrative assistants from01.09.2025onwards. You can apply from February 2025.
What do you do as a trainee?
Interview with Elif Olcum and Jonathan Schwarzenbergwho are currently completing their training as administrative assistants at HTW Berlin.
Training phases at HTW Berlin
The practical phase ofprofessional trainingtakes place at HTW Berlin, while the      theoretical phase is conducted at the Oberstufenzentrum (Vocational      Centre) and the Verwaltungsakademie (VAK) (Administrative Academy). The      intermediate and final examinations are taken at the Administrative      Academy.
The practical training takes place three      days a week and during the school holidays at HTW Berlin across various      university departments. Two days a week, our trainees attend theOberstufenzentrum      für Bürowirtschaft (Vocational Centre for Office Management)in Berlin-Lichterfelde (Lichterfelde-Süd      suburban railway station).
The training programme includes a 3-month      period of specialistinstruction at the VAK Administrative      Academyin Berlin-Tiergarten.
Contact person
Dear applicants,
Thank you for your interest in HTW Berlin.Please apply via the link in the advertisement.
Please fill out the form in its entirety.
Please upload only relevant application      documents (cover letter, CV and certificates) as a PDF file (max. 6 MB)      with the form.
If you have any questions, please send an email toBewerbung-Personal@HTW-Berlin.de.
TVAöD-BBiG
collective bargaining agreementTVAöD (VKA) [PDF]
How to find HTW Berlin!How to reach the Campus Treskowallee by public transport: •	U5, “Tierpark” station •	Trams 27, 37, M17, “Treskowallee/HTW” st
How to reach theCampus Treskowalleeby public transport:U5,      “Tierpark” stationTrams      27, 37, M17, “Treskowallee/HTW” stop
How to reach theCampus Treskowalleeby public transport:
U5,      “Tierpark” station
Trams      27, 37, M17, “Treskowallee/HTW” stop
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service