Work with us at HTW Berlin!
Enjoyable tasks, opportunities for professional development, helping students to gain qualifications, professional challenges without having to think about profits, job security – these are just some of the many reasons to apply!
Work with us at HTW Berlin!
Working time model
Flexible working hours help you to maintain a balance between work and private life. Thanks to teleworking, employees of HTW Berlin can easily combine family and professional responsibilities.
More diverse than you think!
Professional development
Working together with you, we look at which qualifications you need in order to keep pace with changes in technology, business and society. We are there to support you when it comes to professional development, for example with our in-house training courses.
Occupational health
Your health is important to us. As well as organising regular health days and workshops on posture and nutrition, we encourage employees to take advantage of ouruniversity sports programme. If you have any questions about occupational health, the campus doctor is on hand to advise you. You’ll also find a range of healthy and inexpensive meals in the canteens and cafeterias of studierendenWERK Berlin on both the Treskowallee campus and the Wilhelminenhof campus.
Daily life together at HTW Berlin
The people who work and study here are as diverse as HTW Berlin. You can already get to know a few of them in our"Faces"interview series. In addition to sharing daily working life with your colleagues, HTW Berlin also offers you opportunities to socialise during your leisure time, for example by joining thechoir or Tonkollektiv bandor participating inuniversity sports activities for employees.
Beach bar and park
The two campuses of HTW Berlin are only a few minutes apart by tram. The Treskowallee campus is laid out for maximum convenience and is surrounded by beautiful old trees, providing an oasis of green. The Wilhelminenhof campus impresses with its magnificent industrial architecture and is located directly by the river Spree, complete with beach chairs and a beach bar.
Experience through project work
At HTW Berlin, you can gain experience in working in teams through projects. This is very important because in addition to providing expertise, we also want you to participate in interdisciplinary communication and cooperation. If you would like to visit colleagues in another European country, you have the opportunity to do this as part of the Erasmus programme of the European Union.
Families welcome
Working and looking after your children is not a problem at HTW Berlin. We offer various forms of support such as a family room, flexible childcare, childcare during school holidays and a day care centre. TheFamily Support Centrewill be happy to advise you during pregnancy, parental leave or if nursing care is required. HTW Berlin is a member of theDual Career Network Berlinwhich offers support for you and your family when starting a new professional position in Berlin.
Barrier-free access
HTW Berlin is also a university for people with disabilities. There are WCs with disabled access in all buildings, lifts with voice announcements and Braille as well as individual technical and personal support from the university’s Information Technology Centre.
There’s nowhere like Berlin!
Berlin is an exciting city with an endless range of cultural events and activities that can be enjoyed at any time of the day or night. The area surrounding Berlin is beautiful and can be easily be explored without a car – simply hop on the S-Bahn or the regional express train and you’re there.
More diverse than you think!
Current vacancies
Every year, HTW Berlin advertises around 150new positions.We look forward to your application!
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service