Start-ups and innovation
TheHTW Start-UpDepartment offers customised services to promote and support those interested in founding companies and start-ups. The spectrum ranges from individual consulting to qualification offers, coaching and prototyping, through to funding via various scholarship programmes.
In the economics degree programmes, there is a focus on business start-ups, which is supported by the Chair of Entrepreneurship and SME Management. In addition, professors of engineering, design and computer science are committed to helping students and start-ups interested in founding a company.
The "Precelerator" programme IDiA specialises in the pre-start-up phase and offers university members ideas-related, spatial and financial support for the development and validation of concepts. In consequence, a new maker space and co-working space have also been created at the Wilhelminenhof campus.
The start-up service focuses in particular on supporting students and alumni from the design, cultural and creative industries who are interested in setting up their own businesses. The programme includes workshop formats such as the Start-Up Summer University and the Creative Entrepreneurship Week. There are also special programmes for women interested in starting a business. These include the Founders' Days and Founders' Roundtables.
A further focus of the Start-Up Department is the InnoTechHub, the incubator for innovative, growth-orientated start-ups at HTW Berlin. In addition to individual support when applying for an EXIST start-up grant, innovative tech start-ups receive coaching, specialist advice and mentoring. They also have access to the university’s labs, workshops, workplaces and co-working spaces.
The Berlin Startup Scholarship offers suitable support in the form of scholarships and coaching tailored to founders with a knowledge- or technology-based start-up concept in the areas of Social Entrepreneurship, Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Smart City.
We promote a lively start-up culture and welcome any interested collaborators.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service