Core courses (Acceptance  Guaranteed)
Table of contents
←back to course choice
Long Term Design Project
ECTS10:
Course Details (Industrial Design Focus):
The ability to apply the trained design principles and methods to technically oriented design projects and to design complex products and systems together in one target.The designed results are conceptual, constructive and technically varied examined and evaluated. Special technological design variants and - solutions are developed, evaluated and context-dependent in detail.  The design of technologically optimized products will be rated in terms of economy and technological possibilities. The design competence will be tested and recessed in the presentation of technical solutions.
Optional: Expertise Prerequisites: students from 3rd and 5th semester
Course Details (Communication Design Focus):
The Long Term Design Project runs across the entire semester,  students work in response to a set brief and undertake research with the  aim of conceptualizing ideas and developing these in detailed design  proposals and prototypes.The projects are set in a range of  design fields, from film making, photography, editorial design,  corporate design, information design, interaction design, to service  design and transmedial design. The themes of the projects change with  each semester and are prompted by current events and societal  discourses, the evolving roles of design in industry and design practice  and their relationship to emergent technologies.
The modules  are taught one day per week as studio-based projects via a range of  formats including workshops, guest lectures, presentations and  consultations, depending on the topic you will be working in small teams  or on your own.
Short Term Design Project (Industrial Design or Communication Design Focus)
ECTS 5:
In the short term projects that run over the course of one week and  culminate in a small exhibition, the students create ideas and propose  solutions to clearly defined topics within a short period of time. The  projects are set in a range of fields from the respective areas of  design practice and foster the fast translation of ideas into design  concepts, often working in small teams and placing particular emphasis  on experimentation.
Universal Design Thinking (offered only during the Winter Semester)
ECTS 6:
Students learn how to perceive and evaluate products and situations in different ways by changing their perspective. They are familiar with the problems of different cultural practices and solution models in connection with national and cultural traditions and developments. Through report assignments on sub-topics, they independently develop and communicate different perspectives. They are also familiar with other related design approaches, e.g. disabled access and Design for All. The methods of Design Thinking are combined with the principles of Universal Design to create Universal Design Thinking as a new development method that has been tried and tested in a real application context. Students are able to present and evaluate a test series of at least one self-chosen product or a specific situation from daily life in the form of a simulation from the perspective of a user with disabilities. They are also able to communicate the findings to external individuals by changing perspective and analysing the potential for improvements.
Content:
The seminar-style lecture provides an overview of the concept of Universal Design (definition of the term, background, principles and application contexts, national and international relevance and implementation). Students discuss and evaluate the changing criteria of Universal Design with the aim of raising awareness of older employees, people with disabilities or a migrant background and their needs and requirements.
German as a Foreign Language
ECTS 4:
At the           beginning of the           Welcome Weeks, two weeks prior to the start of the lecture period, we           will offer a language           test that determines the level for the ensuing two-week German           intensive course.
Based on           their level in the           intensive course, students will then be able to enroll for one           or more German           language classes during the semester, lasting between 16 and           18 weeks.
Our language           department offers           a wide range of courses - from General German classes,           focusing on the basics           of grammar and conversation, to more advanced German courses           with           specializations in the fields of Design, Business and           Technology.
More information on the German language course offering can be foundhere.
Interdisciplinary Additional Courses ("AWE")
ECTS 2:
Every Semester students are able to choose 1-2 AWE from a great range of general courses in order to complement their regular curriculum courses. You will be able to see the full range of optional courses during thecourse registration period. As not all topics are published yet at the time of the application, please simply select "AWE - General Course" on the learning agreement and then apply for your specific General Course(s) before the semester starts. Please note that "AWE" have limited places, acceptance is not guaranteed.
Some examples of General Courses taught in English from previous semesters are:
International Standardization
Design Thinking and Human Values
Becoming a Global Graduate
International Entrepreneurship
Additionally around 70-80 varying General Courses are offered in German (B2 German recommended) every semester, such as:
Wissenschaftliches Schreiben und Präsentationstechniken
Rhetorik
Karrieremanagement für Frauen
Film Workshop / Von der Idee zum fertigen Film
Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator & InDesign
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service