Ukraine crisis
Table of contents
How you contact us on issues concerning the Ukraine crisis!
HTW Berlin supports its students as well as those affected by the war.
You are welcome to contact us by email in case of challenges or also for offers of help:Ukraine-Hilfe@htw-berlin.de
Fundamental stance
HTW Berlin condemns in the strongest possible terms the military aggression against Ukraine, which is contrary to international law and the fundamental values to which the university subscribes.
HTW Berlin condemns in the strongest possible terms the military aggression against Ukraine, which is contrary to international law and the fundamental values to which the university subscribes.
With the Russian attack on Ukraine, not only the institutional relations of HTW Berlin are affected and damaged, but also collegial and human relations. The university expressly regrets this.
HTW Berlin is coordinating measures with other institutions involved (universities, DAAD, the Berlin Senate, ...) and providing concrete assistance. Support services are currently being prepared. They include provisions for the admission of refugees, who will be assisted as they continue their studies.
HTW Berlin is coordinating measures with other institutions involved (universities, DAAD, the Berlin Senate, ...) and providing concrete assistance. Support services are currently being prepared. They include provisions for the admission of refugees, who will be assisted as they continue their studies.
Support for HTW students
studierendenWERK - financial support and Psychological Counselling ServicestudierendenWERK Social Counselling ServiceStudent Counselling =website→ degree programme → people
Support for refugee students and prospective students
DAAD - National Academic Contact Pointstudy programmes in German, support offers and much more
germany4ukraine guidestudies, work, education, labour and social affairs, orientation etc.
DAAD - Digital Campusstudy in germany, lern german, support offers
StudierendenWERK  Centre for Student Refugees Berlin- initial orientation for taking up studies in Berlin
support.uastudents.denetworking universities and students
Support for refugee university lecturers
DAAD website: support services
Ukrainian Global University
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service