Award recipient 2024
Armel Jordan Njike Nzongang from Cameroon, a student on the Master’s programme “Financial Mathematics, Actuarial Science and Risk Management”, has been involved with the Berliner Tafel charity and has worked as a tutor at HTW Berlin for years.
Award recipient 2023
Hong Dang Nguyen from Vietnam studies Business Communication at HTW Berlin. He was awarded the DAAD Prize 2023 for his outstanding achievements and his many years of involvement in the Vietnamese community in Germany.
Award recipient 2022
Marchellino Gerald Sutioso from Indonesia not only finished his Bachelor's degree in Computer Engineering with distinction, but also volunteers with the "Indonesian Catholic Student Family".
Award recipient 2021
Sreya Chatterjee from India is involved in many projects in addition to her studies in conservation and restoration. During the Covid-19 pandemic, for instance, she helped set up infrastructure databases for oxygen cylinders and other equipment for Indian cities.
Award recipient 2020
Hanna Fedarouskaya from Belarus is studying Fashion Design. She has engaged herself in her study programme through volunteer work as a first-semester buddy, as a tutor in the screen printing and knitting lab, during various fashion shows and for the showcase of the School of Design and Culture.
Award recipient 2019
Reni Amalia Safitri is from Indonesia and is studying Electrical Engineering at HTW Berlin. Her academic achievements are far above average in her study programme. She works as a tutor, is actively involved in the buddy programme for new students and supports her peers. Outside of the university she cares for elderly people in need.
Award recipient 2018
Ropafadzo Murombo from Zimbabwe is studying International Business at HTW Berlin. Not only are her academic achievements high above average, she also engages herself as a volunteer in a variety of ways, e.g. as a first-semester buddy and member of intercultural networks.
Award recipient 2017
Manh Tuan Nguyenis fromVietnam. In the Business Mathematics study programme he is one of the best students in his year group. During his spare time, he is actively involved in the student initiative "HTW hilft" (HTW helps) and helps a school pupil with his homework once a week.
Award recipient 2016
Goran Sidjimovskiis studying Fashion Design and comes fromMacedonia. He works as a tutor in the knitting lab, gives introductory courses and is always on hand to help fellow students. Goran also actively contributes to the showcase events of the School of Design and Culture.
Award recipient 2015
Olga Khristolyubovais from theRussian Federation. The aspiring fashion designer was awarded the prize due to her outstanding academic achievements and the commitment she showed to her study programme — she takes photographs at the fashion shows and maintains the Facebook page of the Fashion Design study programme.
Award recipient 2014
Valeria Vasinais from theRussian Federation. The business administration student received the award for her outstanding academic achievements and her notable voluntary commitment as a tutor in the Business School.
Award recipient 2013
Jeen Jamilis fromSyria. The Bachelor’s student from the Environmental Engineering/Regenerative Energies study programme impressed the selection committee with her outstanding academic achievements and her notable commitment as a tutor in the School of Engineering – Energy and Information and in the German tandem programme of the Goethe-Institut.
Award recipient 2010
Ali Sinai Esfahani fromIranimpressed the selection committee not only with his excellent academic achievements but also with his social commitment. As a Bachelor’s student on the Communication Engineering study programme, he showed great commitment as a tutor in his faculty and volunteered to support the International Office at various events.
Award recipient 2009
Linh Bach, a business administration student at HTW Berlin, is fromVietnam. She was presented the award in recognition of her excellent academic achievements and her voluntary commitment as a mentor for international students.
DAAD Prize
Achievements and commitment
The DAAD Prize is awarded to international students that complete their studies at HTW Berlin and demonstrate outstanding academic achievements and social or intercultural commitment.
Selection procedure
Online nominations via moodleare made by lecturers at HTW Berlin. Students are not permitted to nominate themselves.
Award nominations are not open to students who
have a German higher education entrance qualification
are studying on an exchange programme at HTW Berlin
are enrolled on afurther education Master’s study programme
are in the first academic year of a Bachelor’s study programme
are in the first semester of a consecutive Master’s study programme
The prize recipient is chosen by an independent selection committee based on the submitted nominations. In accordance with the advertised award criteria, apart from academic achievements, social and intercultural commitment is also taken into account in the decision.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service