Digital Twin as a Key Component in Smart Environments
Global Women in Engineering and IT International Summer School
Apply now to participate in Track #4!
Digital Twin as a key component in Smart Environments
Key aspects
Participation in a project course with one Summer School divided into two parts (3 weeks in February at UTS or Swinburne University of Technology and 3 Weeks in July at HTW Berlin) and distance working format in between (end of February until end of March - Holiday; April until June self-organised project work)
Practice-oriented learning with highly qualified professors and industry partners (HTW/UTS/Swinburne University of Technology)
Project work and networking in international and interdisciplinary teams
Excellent international career perspectives
Open to students of Engineering and IT study programs, female applicants will be prioritized
Who can apply
Enrollment to the Summer School is open to MA students as well as BA students (covering the project courses "bachelors project 1, 2") who are enrolled at HTW Berlin in the study field of Industrial Engineering and Computer Science of the study program.
Teaching language
English (no German required)
Location and format
The first part of the Summer School will take place on the campus of UTS or Swinburne University of technology, the second part will be held on the HTW campus in Berlin.
The course includes
Academic content: Digital Twin, Cloud Solutions, PLM/PDM/Digital Factory, Requirements Engineering,etc.(10 ECTS)
Workshop in Design Thinking
Workshop agile method Scrum
Workshop intercultural training
Workshop methods of scientific work
Excursions
Cultural program: The cultural program includes additional activities  outside the classroom. We offer visits to historical sites, museums as  well as events typical for Sydney or Melbourne and Berlin
Access to needed hardware and software available
Total credits
10 ECTS for students completing a bachelors degree5 ECTS for students completing a masters degree
Scholarship
We have the  possibility to support 8 students with a scholarship financed by the DAAD for the Summer  School in Sydney or Melbourne (flight/mobility costs).
In order to boost women in STEM studies the selection committee may  take into account special life circumstances, about which you can  provide information in the application form.
How to apply?
Your full application should contain:
Letter of motivation (in English)
CV (in English)
Transcript of records
Relevant certificates
Proof of enrolment
Proof of English proficiency for subject courses (e.g. Abitur certificate, HTW language course certificate, TOEFL certificate)
When to apply?
The application period has closed.
Partner universities
Practical Projects with Partners from Industry
The project "Global Women in Engineering and IT" enables motivated students, especially women, from the 4th and 5th semester of their bachelor's degree as well as master's students to work in international teams on projects in cooperation with partners from industry. Participation in the project includes the attendance of two summer schools, one taking place in Sydney or Melbourne (February), the other one taking place in Berlin (July) for three weeks each. In between the summer schools, the student teams participate in self-organized project work, planning three sprint-meetings in distance format. This allows the students to gain an early insight into the working environment and cooperative teams working together across national borders.
Possible project topics:Consideration of a product/service over its entire life cycleDesign and usage of a Digital TwinSystem driven engineeringNew business cases for digital twinningConcept development after requirements elicitation and analysis including prototyping
Possible project topics:
Consideration of a product/service over its entire life cycle
Design and usage of a Digital Twin
System driven engineering
New business cases for digital twinning
Concept development after requirements elicitation and analysis including prototyping
HTW Berlin Summer School “Digital Twin as a key component in Smart Environments” as a part of the project course
HTW Berlin considers its responsibility for present and future generations to anchor the topic Digital Twin in its teaching. The Summer School focuses on state-of-the-art topics of Industry 4.0. Due to the fast pace within the age of digitalization, the Summer School combines the topic of Digital Twin as a key component in Smart Environments with agile project management in Scrum.
The design and usage of a Digital Twin improves the performance of the company on the one hand and allows a better focus on sustainability on the other. In today's VUCA world, companies must adapt. VUCA stands for volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity and describes the difficult conditions that companies must face in times of Industry 4.0.
For questions please contact:AU-SummerSchool@HTW-berlin.de
For more information on the International Summer School as well as project results, please refer tothe project website.
Summer School Partners
UTS - Mechanical and Mechatronic Engineering
UTS - Women in Engineering and IT
Swinburne University of Technology
Information for partners from industry
As the customer, you define and describe the project task in a project profile. The presentation of the project task at the beginning of the project phase is essential to convince the students of you as the client and to arouse intrinsic motivation. During the realization of the projects, the students get to know the agile project management method Scrum. Within the Scrum process you take the role of the customer. Due to that your presence at the reviews at the end of a sprint is important. Therefore, you should schedule at least 4-5 (face-to-face/online) meetings. Weekly meetings are also possible. During the project you must provide a contact person for the students. Depending on the project task, it may be necessary to provide working materials to the students (e. g. software or hardware). All information can be found in our handout for partners.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service