Documents required for a Bachelor’s study programme
Apply viauni-assist.
All documents will be accepted in German and English. Documents in other  languages require a German or English translation. Do not send original  documents, please provide officially certified copies of your  documents.
Table of contents
Documents for your application
Submit the following documents by the application deadline — 31 December for the summer semester, 30 June for the winter semester:
School certificates, university degree certificates and transcripts from your country of originInformation  from the Central Office for Foreign Education (Zentralstelle für  ausländisches Bildungswesen – ZAB) regarding the admission requirements  for German universities can be found atanabin.de.
Proof of German proficiencyto level C1 for all study programmes conducted in GermanThis also applies if you have German citizenship but your school/university certificate is from abroad.
Proof of English proficiencyto level C1 for study programmes conducted in EnglishIf  English is the official national language of the country in which you  received your higher education entrance qualification or if you  completed secondary school or a study programme in English, you do not  require proof of English proficiency.
Pre-study internship certificateif this is a requirement for the programme of study you wish to apply for.This  should be submitted in the form of a comprehensive and detailed  certificate from the employer. The pre-study internship can be completed  in Germany or abroad.
Aptitude test(Eignungsprüfung) if this is a requirement for the programme of study you wish to apply for.Registration  for the aptitude test is arranged directly with the programme of study  and takes place independently from your application for a study place.
Proof of previous courses and examinations at other German universitiesIf  you are/were enrolled at another German universities and wish to  transfer to HTW Berlin, please provide full documentations of all  periods of study in Germany.
Proof of previous courses and examinations at foreign universitiesIf  you have only studied abroad, you can apply for accreditation of your  previous courses and examinations. Please provide supporting  documentation.
Documents for enrolment
Before beginning your study programme — summer semester begins on 1  April, winter semester on 1 October — you must provide the following:
Semester feePay  the fee initially in the full amount. For the semester ticket you can  apply to the semester ticket office for assistance from the social fund.  The amount of payment from the social fund will be decided by the  semester ticket office. For the contribution to the central student  union (AStA) you can submit a hardship application to AStA in order to receive permanent exemption.
German  language test certificate (e.g. DSH-2) for university entry or an  equivalent language test for all study programmes conducted in GermanThis also applies if you have German citizenship but your school/university certificate is from abroad.
Proof of health insuranceAll  students up to the age of 30 are obliged to provide proof of membership  in a German statutory health insurance scheme or a copy of the EHIC. In  the case of private or foreign health insurance cover, please also  provide proof of exemption from participation in a statutory health  insurance scheme. At the welcome event for foreign students which the  International Office organises shortly before the semester begins, all  necessary information will be provide as well as contact with the main  German statutory health insurance providers. In Berlin, refugee students  will continue to receive benefits under the Asylum Seekers Benefits Act  (Asylbewerberleistungsgesetz). After 15 months,  the option then exists to apply for financial support in accordance with  the Federal Training Assistance Act (BAföG).  Refugees will therefore continue to have health insurance coverage under  the Asylum Seekers Benefits Act. In such cases proof of health  insurance will not be required for enrolment.
A copy of your passport or identity card
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service