Elective Courses
Table of contents
B3.3 Processing Technology 2
ECTS: 5
Learning outcome: Students will be able to name, describe and  reproduce the machines and procedures of the seam joining process and  identify and interpret the relationship between the effective factors of  textile product, material and machine. They can derive technological  limit values from technical machine data and thus select, test and apply  suitable joining processes depending on the product, material and  genre. They are able to discuss and present results to the group.
B7.1 Quality Management
ECTS: 5
The aim of the course is to acquire basic knowledge of quality  management and the comprehensive concept of TQM and to transfer this  knowledge to companies in the clothing industry. Students get familiar  with topics such as auditing and evaluation and learn the importance of  QM systems for products, services and all functional areas of a company.  The role of the customer in connection with quality will be discussed.  Upon successful completion, students can interpret and apply quality  standards.
B7.21 Special Textile Machines and Processes (Focus: Textile Recycling)
ECTS: 5
Students learn about textile waste, the industrial processes for  post-consumer textile collection and sorting including digitalization  and automation technologies. They learn about different methods of  textile recycling. They will familiarise themselves with the specific  processes and suitability of clothing products for recycling. Upon  successful completion, they can combine their knowledge with  responsibility for ecology and the environment.
B7.22 Virtual Product Development
ECTS: 5
Students learn how to create and display simple CAD-supported models  in 3D on the figurine (avatar, scanatar) on the PC using the CAD  programme modaris and make initial assessments of the fit. They can  handle individual measurements, estimate body shapes and integrate these  into the design using parameters in the modular CAD system GRAFIS.
Note: CAD pattern making knowledge is required to be admitted to this course.
WP2.1 Quality Management Systems (PS)
ECTS: 5
After successful completion of the course, students know the  importance of QM systems as a prerequisite for reproducible production  and error traceability. They can analyse strengths and weaknesses,  classify services and customer acquisition. Students are confident in  dealing with controlling mechanisms in cost management and have basic  knowledge of the introduction of QM systems in companies. They know the  importance of QM systems with regard to upstream and downstream elements  in the value chain and think in a complex and holistic way.
Interdisciplinary Additional Courses ("AWE")
Every Semester students are able to choose 1-2 AWE from a great range of general courses in order to complement their regular curriculum courses. You will be able to see the full range of optional courses during thecourse registration period. As not all topics are published yet at the time of the application, please simply select "AWE - General Course" on the learning agreement and then apply for your specific General Course(s) before the semester starts. Please note that "AWE" have limited places, acceptance is not guaranteed.
Some examples of General Courses taught in English from previous semesters are:
International Standardization
Design Thinking and Human Values
Becoming a Global Graduate
International Entrepreneurship
Additionally around 70-80 varying General Courses are offered in German (B2 German recommended) every semester, such as:
Wissenschaftliches Schreiben und Präsentationstechniken
Rhetorik
Karrieremanagement für Frauen
Film Workshop / Von der Idee zum fertigen Film
Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator & InDesign
Language Courses
ECTS 4:
At the beginning of the Welcome Weeks, two weeks prior to the start of the lecture period, we will offer a language test that determines the level for the ensuing two-week German intensive course.
Based on their level in the intensive course, students will then be able to enroll for one or more German language classes during the semester, focusing on thebasics of grammar and conversation, to more advanced German courses with specializations in the fields of Design, Business and Technology.
Our language department also offers a wide range of other language courses. For more information, please refer to thewebsite of our Language Department.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service