Further funding options
For a stay abroad there are a lot of programs and scholarships  available, but you have take into consideration the different  requirements, conditions and deadlines and the application for the following funding programs are not handled by the International Office of HTW.. Please note that  there is no general right or guarantee to receive a funding, as a  selection of candidates is generally required among all applicants.
Table of contents
DAAD - With Scholarship Abroad
All current information on scholarship programs, application deadlines, and scholarship rates can be foundhere.For guidance on DAAD scholarships at events or on social media, five  explanatory videos on DAAD scholarships are available on theDAAD-Youtube - Channelinshort- andlong versions.You can find the DAAD scholarships in thescholarship database.
German state student grant and loan (BAföG) for studies abroad
If you are entitled to BAföG, you are also entitled toAuslands-BAföG(German state student grant and loan (BAföG) for studies abroad). It is paid for mandatory internships within Europe and for studies abroad lasting a maximum of one year. In addition to the scholarship, funding is available to help cover the travel costs, tuition fees up to max. 5,600 euros and any additional health insurance. It is not possible to receive the “normal” BAföG while you are receiving Auslands-BaföG.
Bildungskredit (education loan)
If you are not receiving a scholarship, you can apply for aBildungskredit(education loan).
GOstralia!-GOmerica! Full and partial scholarships
GOstralia!-GOmerica! awards full and partial scholarships for the reopening of the New Zealand borders.
Apply now and secure one of the exclusive scholarships for a study  abroad semester in 2023, regardless of your grades! More information:gostralia-gomerica.de/restartnz
Additionally, there is a chance for two full scholarships for a semester abroad in Australia or Vietnam.
GOstralia!-GOmerica! awards 2 full scholarships for a semester abroad for the 1st and 2nd half of 2024 to two friends, or "mates," who can apply with a short video. The winning pair can choose to spend a semester abroad together at one of the seven participating universities in Australia or Vietnam. The scholarships are open to students from all fields of study and are awarded regardless of grades. The application deadline is September 30, 2023, or March 31, 2024, for the 2nd half of the year.
Students can apply for the following universities:
University of Sydney
Macquarie University
Deakin University
Swinburne University of Technology
University of South Australia
Edith Cowan University
RMIT University Vietnam
More information is available atgostralia-gomerica.de/mates.
Scholarships provided by the Polish government.
The Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Republic of Poland  offersscholarships for study and research staysat Polish universities.
China Scholarship Program
The China Scholarship Program offered by the Studienstiftung des  deutschen Volkes (German Academic Scholarship Foundation) is designed  for non-Sinologists who intend to pursue aone-year language, study, and  internship program in the People's Republic of China.
Fulbright
For students of a German University of Applied Sciences:
Summer Institute in the USA for technical college students 2025
Would you like to learn more about the 17 goals for sustainable development at a renowned US research university? Would you like to acquire intercultural and solution-oriented skills to help preserve living spaces and promote social justice? Are you enrolled as a full-time student in a bachelor's program at a state-recognized German university of applied sciences in the 3rd to 6th semester of summer semester 2025? Then you can apply for the summer study program “A Culture of Sustainability” FROM NOW UNTIL JANUARY 15, 2025.  The program will take place from August 3 to 29, 2025 at North Carolina State University .
The four-week program is dedicated to the interdisciplinary and intercultural discussion of the topic of sustainability. Courses cover the topics of sustainable development, intercultural skills and social justice. Cultural and topic-related excursions in Raleigh's 'Research Triangle' enrich the program."
To learn more about the application requirements and process, please click on the FulbrightWebsite.
The application deadline is January 15, 2025 (23:59:59 CET).
For inquiries about the scholarship program, please get into contact withusa-seminar@fulbright.de.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service