Exchange programmes worldwide (PROMOS)
Table of contents
PROMOS - Program for the Enhancement of Student Mobility
The German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) funds the PROMOS program with funds from the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) to enhance the mobility of students from German universities.
Objectives of the program:
Increase the mobility of students and doctoral candidates from German universities.
Focus on university-based study abroad mobility.
Emphasize and expand the internationalization strategy.
The program enables shorter-term (1 to a maximum of 6 months) study abroad stays. PROMOS is suitable for you if your study abroad stay cannot be supported by any of the structured programs (such as Erasmus). Partial scholarships are awarded for studying at partner universities worldwide in priority countries such as Asia, Africa, Latin and Central America, and Eastern Europe.
Eligible to apply are regularly enrolled students from German universities who:
Hold German citizenship, or
Are considered equivalent to Germans according to § 8 Paragraph 1, Clauses 2 onwards, Paragraph 2, 2a, and 3 of the Federal Training Assistance Act (BAföG) (the wording of the law can be found at:www.das-neue-bafoeg.de), or
Are enrolled as students or graduates without German citizenship in a degree program at a German university with the aim of obtaining a degree from the German university or pursuing a doctoral degree at a German university.
For students without German citizenship, stays in their home country are excluded. The home country is defined as the country where the student/doctoral candidate has predominantly resided for at least five years.
The International Office will be happy to provide you with further guidance and advice.
50 partner universities outside the EU
In addition to ERASMUS partnerships, HTW Berlin cooperates with around 50 partner universities worldwide. An exchange semester at these universities can mean a high level of financial costs and organisational effort. However, the university’s existing contacts can be used to simplify the application procedure. In some cases the tuition fees are a little lower or can be waived. You are also free to apply for a semester abroad at a university that is not a partner university of HTW Berlin. You will need to use your own initiative for this. When researching options, please observe any special admission requirements specified by the individual universities with regard to:
Language requirements
Payment of tuition fees
Higher living costs
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service