Strategic partnership with Helsinki Metropolia
Helsinki Metropoliaand HTW Berlin have maintained close contacts with each other for many years. As they are both located in their respective capital cities, the two universities face similar challenges and opportunities — a fact which played a key role in the decision to intensify their cooperation. Since 2011 a formal strategic partnership has existed in the form of an extensive cooperation agreement.
Cooperation activities
Joint study programme inConstruction and Real Estate Management
Student and employee exchanges within the framework of the Erasmus programme
Regular interest forums, brainstorming meetings, workshops, seminars and conferences
Joint research activities
[Translate to Englisch:] Construction and Real Estate Management
Construction and Real Estate Management (ConREM)is an international Master’s programme geared towards the construction industry and taught in English. The degree programme was launched in 2004 in a joint cooperation between the Metropolia University in Helsinki and HTW Berlin. The first year of study takes place in Helsinki, and the second in Berlin. Over the course of four semesters, students take technical and business modules, e.g. on sustainable development, applied product modelling and international management. The unique thing about the programme? ConREM is a so-called “Master by Research”. This means that the Master’s thesis is not written in the last semester, as is usually the case, but is instead developed as part of a three-semester module. ConREM graduates receive a Finnish-German Master of Science degree. ConREM alumni are sought after by renowned major companies and organisations in the construction industry. However, many go on to do a doctorate after graduation and pursue an academic career.
More information
Beyond the Ordinary: Aiming Higher in Higher Education| A joint publication of HTW Berlin and Metropolia Helsinki
If You Can Make It There You Can Make It Everywhere – Triumph of the Metropolitan Area Cooperation| Artikel imJournal of Finnish Universities of Applied Sciences3 (2014)
Benchmarking 2013 of Student Services in HTW Berlin and Helsinki Metropolia[PDF]
Benchmarking 2012 of HTW Berlin and Helsinki Metropolia[PDF]
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service