Assessment of foreign education and studies
Table of contents
Example Syria
General Secondary Education Certificate (Scientific or Literary  Section) with an overall grade of 60% to 69% of the maximum score→ You can apply for theuniversity preparatory course(esp.subject-specific).
General  Secondary Education Certificate (Scientific or Literary Section) with  an overall grade of 60% to 69% of the maximum scoreplusone year of academic study→ You can apply for aprogramme of study(esp.subject-specific).
General  Secondary Education Certificate (Scientific or Literary Section) with  an overall grade of more than 70% of the maximum score→ You can apply for theprogramme of study(esp.subject-specific).
At least 4 years of study at an accredited university→ You can apply for a(Master’s) programme of study.
Example Iraq
Primary Teacher Training School certificateorInstitute of Fine Arts certificateorBaccalaureate Examination for Secondary / Preparatory Schools→ You can apply for theuniversity preparatory course(esp.subject-specific).
Primary Teacher Training School certificateorInstitute of Fine Arts certificateorBaccalaureate Examination for Secondary / Preparatory Schoolsplusone to two years of academic study→ You can apply for aprogramme of study(esp.subject-specific).
Diploma from a Technological Institute→ You can apply for aprogramme of study(esp.subject-specific).
At least three years of study at an accredited university→ You can apply for a(Master’s) programme of study.
Example Afghanistan
Secondary school leaving certificate→ You can apply for theuniversity preparatory course(esp.subject-specific).
Secondary school leaving certificateplusone to two years of academic study→ You can apply for aprogramme of study(esp.subject-specific).
At least three years of study at an accredited university→ You can apply for a(Master’s) programme of study.
Example Albania
School leaving certificate→ You can apply for theuniversity preparatory course(esp.subject-specific).
Diplome  e Matures Shteterore from the "Sami Frasheri" grammar school with proof  of German language diploma — second level (DSD II)→ You can apply for aprogramme of study.
At least three years of study at an accredited university with a clear scientific profile→ You can apply for a(Master’s) programme of study.
Example Eritrea
Eritrean Secondary Education Certificate (certificates from 1993)→ You can apply for theuniversity preparatory course(esp.subject-specific), providing you also fulfil other conditions.
Eritrean Secondary Education Certificate (certificates from 1993)plusone to two years of academic study→ You can apply for aprogramme of study(esp.subject-specific).
At least 4 years of academic study→ You can apply for a(Master’s) programme of study.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service