Teaching Support Centre
Teaching is our passion. Which is precisely why we are committed to supporting and networking teachers, as well as enhancing teaching processes and making these more visible.
Would you like a sparring partner as you develop and refine your teaching skills? Do you need assistance as you create teaching media? Are you looking for inspiration and further training opportunities on the topic of teaching? Then the Teaching Support Centre is at your service!
Contact
You can reach us atlehre@htw-berlin.deor by telephone. For those who would prefer to visit us in person, our office is on the Wilhelminenhof Campus in room WH B 004. We look forward to receiving your enquiries!
Consulting
We offer professional advice to support you in the further development of your teaching skills and work with you to find individual solutions:
if you want to try something new
to help you answer any      questions about digital or hybrid teaching
as you search for a      suitable examination typefor your course concept
if you know what you      want to change about a course, just not precisely how
during the      development of a new study programme
when applying for      the Teaching Innovation Fund or another teaching project
if you’re interested      in teaching observation and would like to receive feedback on your      teaching and specific ideas for further development
And for all other concerns relating to teaching and learning - whether in-person, digital or hybrid. Please feel free to get in touch!
You can find moredetails on our advisory servicesunder the menu item Teaching.
Co-creation of media: we’re here to help!
Be it a podcast, video or animation, we’re here to support and accompany you in all technical, design and didactic questions as youconceive of and produce audiovisual mediato meet your didactic needs.
From ideas development and conception to production and integration into your courses, we offer the following services:
Initial consultation on how to make your teaching      more innovative
Support with the      creation of a script
Creation of graphic      content
Creation of      animations
Sound recordings and      filming
Media provision and      editing
In addition to production rooms, such as the sound and video studio, the latest production technology is available for high-end results. Atechnology rental servicecompletes our offer.
Simply send an email tolehre@htw-berlin.deand arrange an initial consultation during which we can view existing materials and documents (analogue or digital) together.
Events & continuing education
We regularly hold events aimed at supporting your continuing education and networking. These include:
An online seminar offering a compact introduction to university teaching
An online seminar in which you can learn the basics of effective exam concepts and develop ideas for your own
Upcoming dates:March 2025Registrationvia Moodlecourse
For continuing education and exchange with other teachers
Offers didactic impulses for new professors
Symposium on the latest topics in university teaching. Details of the programme can be found on theEvent page.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service