Welcome to HTW Berlin!
What to study? And where to study? These aren’t easy questions to answer. Only you can decide which field of study interests you the most. However, we can help you with where to study: at HTW Berlin!
Prospective students
Business, Engineering, Computing, Design, Culture, Health, Energy & Environment, Construction & Real Estate: Choose from 80study programmes at HTW Berlin. Eight degree programmes are taught exclusively in English.
Find your English-taught study programme
Bachelor's and Master's degree
Advanced Master's programmes
How to applyfor a study place is explained step by step our website. If you have any questions, theStudent Service Centrewill be happy to assist you.
There areadmission requirementsfor studying at HTW Berlin. These include
aproof of English proficiencyfor English-language degree programmes and
aproof of German proficiencyfor German-language degree programmes.
Please note: The advanced Master's programmes have their own application process. Please check the website of the study programme.
HTW Berlin charges asemester feeevery six months. For the advanced Master's programmes you have to pay an additional tuition fee. You can find out the amount of the tuition fee on the programme website.
In addition you will have to cover yourcost of livingsuch as rent, food and health insurance. We have put together some tips on how to finance your studies withBAföG(German state student grant and loan),scholarshipsorpart-time jobsand how tosuccessfully find accommodation.
With theHTW Foundation Programme, you can acquire the language and professional skills you need to study in Germany while gaining an insight into HTW Berlin.
Small groupsAt HTW Berlin, you'll never find mass lectures with large numbers of students. You'll study in groups with a maximum of 40 other students. The “big” study programmes such as Business Administration and Business Communication Management are split into “streams” of students. This means that even for these subjects you’ll learn in normal class-sized groups.
Practical relevanceOver 100 laboratories equipped with modern facilities ensure a practice-oriented focus at HTW Berlin. An internship semester is also compulsory in all of our Bachelor’s programmes. Furthermore, in addition to being academically qualified in their field, without exception, all of our professors can draw on their own practical experience in their profession.
Lots of supportHTW Berlin provides you with support every step of the way – not only during your studies but also before and after. TheLearning Centreoffers bridging courses and tutorials in mathematics, computer science and learning strategies. TheCareer Servicewill help you to get started with your career, while theStart-up Competence Centrecan help you on the path to self-employment.
Excellent infrastructureEnjoy WiFi in all university buildings, computer pools with the latest software and an Information Technology Centre with a hotline should you need assistance. These are just a few examples of the excellent infrastructure enjoyed by students at HTW Berlin. The university library also provides you with access to subject-related literature, electronic journals and daily newspapers.
International CampusAt HTW Berlin,foreign languagesare an integral part of our Bachelor’s programmes, providing the ideal preparation for a semester abroad at one of our 150partner universities in Europe and overseas. You can also study internationally by taking one of thedegree programmes conducted entirely in Englishat HTW Berlin.
That’s an easy question: Berlin is diverse. No matter what your interests are, you’re sure to be able to pursue them here. At the same time, education and living standards are high. And the cost of living is still affordable compared to other capitals around the world. Admittedly, it’s still not possible to speak English everywhere in the city and be understood. However, Berlin is becoming increasingly international, if only because many people of different nationalities live together here. We look forward to seeing you!
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service