Research clusters
Health
Through interdisciplinary teamwork, the"Health"research cluster develops products, processes, concepts and services for better health.
Environment-friendly Energy Supply Systems and Energy-efficient Buildings
The researchers in the"Environmentally Friendly Energy Supply Systems and Energy-efficient Buildings"research cluster develop ideas for environmentally friendly ways to transform our energy supply.
Culture and Computer Science
The"Culture and Computer Science"research cluster investigates the potential uses of information and communication technology for culture and creative industries.
SOFTINE
The work of the"SOFTINE"research cluster focuses on environmentally friendly and efficient ways to design operational production processes supported by modern information and communication technology.
Creative Computing
The“Creative Computing”research cluster team focuses on the generation, editing, analysis and use of images and videos.
Game Changer
The"Game Changer"research cluster is dedicated to digital games and interactive game systems.
Technologies and Solutions for Industrial and Demographic Change
Based on an interdisciplinary approach and the analysis of regional potentials, theIDCcluster aims to address challenges presented by the industrial and demographic changes that are currently taking place throughout the world.
Islamic Culture
The"Islamic Culture"research cluster focuses on the protection, preservation and management of cultural heritage from the Islamic world, supporting its conservation and reconstruction with a range of specialist skills.
Money, Finance, Trade and Development
Researchers in the"Money, Finance, Trade and Development"research cluster focus on the causes of the financial crisis, appropriate ways to restore the macroeconomic equilibrium and the challenges for the global economy posed by the rise of emerging markets.
Sustainable Smart Cities
The members of theSustainable Smart Citiesresearch cluster are united in their vision of a sutainable, digital city. They take a holistic approach, transcending disciplinary boundaries.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service