Prof. Dr. Regina Zeitner: Award recipient 2024
Prof. Dr.Regina Zeitner is heavily involved in the field of sustainability transformation, in the “WaNdel4!” project, for example, which is striving to create a master plan for a climate-friendly campus. She not only works to raise students’ awareness of this topic, but also provides important impetus for the University and its environment.
Prof. Dr. Sebastian Dullien: Award recipient 2023
Prof. Dr.Sebastian Dullien impresses with his target group-oriented analysis of economic contexts and research results. He contributes significantly to the visibility and profile of HTW Berlin thanks to his expertise in giving scientific policy advice.
Prof. Dr. Heike Marita Hölzner: Award recipient 2022
Thanks toProf. Dr.Heike Marita Hölzner, the concept of “entrepreneurship” has gained in importance. She procures research projects, stands for innovative teaching formats, ensures networking and, in particular, consolidates prospects for female entrepreneurs.
Prof. Dr. Florian Koch: Award recipient 2021
Whether in research, teaching or science communication,Prof. Dr.Florian Koch’s transfer activities are many and varied. He works persistently and creatively on the practical realisation of ideas for the sustainable smart city.
Prof. Sebastian Feucht: Award recipient 2020
Prof.Sebastian Feucht played a key role in shaping the “House of Transformation” project. His activities impress with originality and a clear vision. They perfectly embody HTW Berlin’s understanding of transfer.
Transfer Award
HTW Berlin cultivates a very broad understanding of transfer that encompasses various forms of cooperation in research, teaching and further education as well as the exchange of information, knowledge, services, technologies and people The research-based and business-oriented transfer of knowledge and technology is increasingly being expanded to include "Third Mission" activities.
To make this wide-ranging understanding of transfer visible and to acknowledge outstanding achievements, HTW Berlin presents a Transfer Award since 2020. The award is endowed with 4,000 euros.
Acknowledgement of activities
The Transfer Award is presented to professors in recognition of outstanding services to transfer. The award acknowledges the following activities:
the development and maintenance of strategic cooperation partnerships with practice partners in teaching or research,
start-up support in teaching and research,
actively engaging with an audience outside the scientific community by offering innovative, citizen-oriented formats,
civic engagement and cooperation at the district level,
inventions, patents, utility models and participation and involvement in the successful exploitation of intellectual property rights,
commitment to diversity, social inclusion and accessibility in education,
engagement in professional and trade associations, expert and consultant activities.
An award committee will decide on the winner of the Transfer Award.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service