Working for our energy supply system
These Engineering scientists are focusing on the transformation process  of the energy supply system. In the context of the POSYTYF project they  collaborate with ten partners from four EU countries. The solution: the  dynamic, virtual power plant.
Read more >>>
Discovering and leveraging business opportunities
Professor Heike Hölzner specialises in entrepreneurship and SME management. She was ranked by Capital magazine among the “Top 40 under 40” who shaped the economy and society in 2019.
Read more >>>
Why do start-ups grow more slowly in Berlin than elsewhere?
Organisational sociologist Prof. Dr. Florian Becker-Ritterspach is investigating how norms and values shape economic activities in the research project "Gazelles within an Industry Cluster".
Read more >>>
One of the most influential economists in Germany
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung ranked Prof. Dr. Barbara Praetorius among Germany’s most influential female economists. The economist and political scientist is a Professor of Sustainability, Environmental and Energy Economics and Policy.
Read more >>>
Successful transformation fails because of group dynamics.
Prof. Dr. Jürgen Radel researches the resistance that arises during organisational transformation. He is an expert in organisational development and change management.
Read more  >>>
How can we prolong a healthy life?
Prof. Dr. Jacqueline Franke teaches students studying Life Science Engineering. As an expert in biochemistry and molecular biology, she specialises in ageing research.
Read more  >>>
Solar energy has huge potential in Germany.
Prof. Dr. Volker Quaschning teaches students on the Renewable Energy Systems programme and is the head of the Solar Storage Systems research group.
Read more  >>>
A database for art in public spaces
Prof. Dr. Susanne Kählerspecialises in the sculptural works of the GDR and says a more nuanced view is needed. She teaches and researches as a professor on the Museum Studies programme.
Read more  >>>
How can digital technologies make cities more sustainable?
Prof. Dr. Florian Koch specialises in real estate management, smart cities and urban development. His passion is developing future-proof ideas for cities.
Read more  >>>
Research
HTW Berlin cultivates a broad understanding oftransferand cooperates with numerousinstitutions and key playersin the areas of science, business, management and culture. TheCooperation Centre for Applied Sciencesacts as the central point of contact for cooperation enquiries, putting interested parties in touch with appropriate experts at HTW Berlin and helping to set up cooperative research activities.
Researchers at HTW Berlin follow an interdisciplinary and application-oriented approach to research and development with a strong relation to practice. The university’sresearch profileis shaped by five corefuture topics, forming the focal basis for itsresearch clusters, research groups and institutions.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service