Grades & module certificates
Table of contents
Grades and module certificates in the LSF
Under "Leistungsstand/Bescheinigungen" in theLSF-Portal, you can
View yourcurrent grades and module certificatesat any time.
Print out certificates(enrolment and semester certificates, overall grade transcripts in German and English)free of charge as PDFs. You can submit these print outs to authorities (e.g. to the BAföG office) because the accuracy of the information can be checked using the QR code and verification address.
If you notice any irregularities in your current transcripts or semester certificates, contactyour responsible team at the Student Services Officewithout delay.
Signed module certificates
If you require a personally signedmodule certificate, you can request this in person or by post to the responsible member of the Examinations Office. A stamped and self-addressed envelope would be appreciated. You will generally receive the requested certificate within six working days.
Replacementsare subject to charge and you must first submit a request by email, as you will have to pay the fees by bank transfer in advance.
Module certificates for guest listeners and guest students
Module certificates forguest listeners and guest studentsare issued by the lecturer.
Degree certificates and grade transcripts
The Examinations Office will produce the grade transcript, degree certificate, de-registration certificate and other graduation documents as soon as your examination panel has provided your final examination documents. You will be informed by postcard or email when the documents are ready for you to collect. You can
pick up the documents yourselfor authorise another person to collect them for you.
have the documents sent to you for a fee. Please write us anemailto get your documents by postal delivery.
Replacement documents are payable and can be requested by students in the Campus Management System (LSF).HTW Berlin alumni should use theform for replacement certificates [PDF].
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service