Studienkolleg (university preparatory course)
Table of contents
Requirements
If your non-German education qualification does not entitle you to directly study in Germany and you can provide proof of an indirect higher education entry qualification, you will then need to take a final assessment test. Pleasecheck your higher education entry qualification.If you have a specialist indirect higher education entry qualification, you are only permitted to apply for the Studienkolleg (university preparatory course) for this specific subject area. The subject area is determined by the subject that you studied in your home country or in which you completed relevant examinations. In Germany the subjects are divided into humanities / linguistics (G, S sometimes combined as G/S), social sciences and business/economics (W), technical subjects and sciences (T) and medicine and biology (M).
First complete the Studienkolleg, then take the final assessment test
TheStudienkollegis the university preparatory course and takes one year (two semesters) to complete on a full-time basis. Studienkollegs are offered in different subject areas all over Germany. A German language test equivalent to DSH-2 level is also integrated in the final assessment test. If you pass the finalassessment test, you will attain the higher education entrance qualification for Germany and fulfil the German language requirement for university entry.
Studienkolleg at HTW Berlin
In cooperation with TU Berlin, HTW Berlin offers asubject-specific “Technology” preparatory course. Once you have passed the final assessment test for this Studienkolleg, you can apply for technical or design-based study programmes as well as for business and economics at HTW Berlin.
Applying via uni-assist
The followingapplication deadlinesapply:
30 November for the upcoming summer semester
30 June for the upcoming winter semester
If you wish to attend the Studienkolleg at HTW Berlin, you need to apply via uni-assist.
We recommend to send all requireddocuments as officially attested copies(with a seal of authentication and the signature of the authenticating  person). A simple copy of your application documents is usually accepted  when applying to HTW Berlin.
All application documents must be  submitted in German or English. Documents in other languages must be  submitted with an officially attested German or English translation,  otherwise they will not be accepted. A list of officially authorised  translators in Germany can be obtained from theBundesverband der Dolmetscher und Übersetzer(BDÜ, Federal Association of Interpreters and Translators).
Required documents:
School certificates and grade transcripts from your home country, e.g. school leaving certificate, higher education entry examination, grade transcript
Academic test centre certificate (APS)if you are fromIndia,China,Vietnam
German language course certificate/beginners’ level B2, even if you wish to subsequently apply for a study programme conducted entirely in English, as German is the only language of instruction used in the Studienkolleg
for the W-course additionally a language certificate in English at A2 level
How to apply correctly for the Studienkolleg
Enter the name of the study programme that you wish to take after you complete the Studienkolleg. It is important to specify the study programme, as this determines which course you complete in the Studienkolleg. It is important that you do not enter which particular Studienkolleg course you think you should take. Instead, you must enter the name of a study programme that the university actually offers in either a technical or business subject which corresponds with your specialist subject-related entry qualifications.Answer the question of whether you are applying for a place in a Studienkolleg with “Ja/yes”. Regardless of what you enter here, uni-assist will assess your higher education entry qualification and determine whether you need to attend a Studienkolleg. Incorrectly answering this question will therefore have no effect on your application.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service