Living in Berlin
Table of contents
An early search is recommended
You will need patience to find suitable and affordable accommodation. Moving fast is also important. Hence, we recommend that you start looking well in advance — ideally as soon as you receive your university place. Please make sure that you consider legitimate offers only!
HTW Berlin does not let, allocate or arrange housing. Finding housing is your own responsibility.
Student halls of residence
In      Berlin, universities do not have their own halls of      residence. Instead, the studierendenWERK Berlinowns halls of residence and offers places within      these to all Berlin students.
You can livein a single      apartment or shared accommodation (WG) in thehalls      of residence owned by the studierendenWERK Berlin.The Aristotelessteig and Sewanstrasse halls of      residence are within walking distance of the Treskowallee campus.
If you are interested in a      place in a hall of residence, register via thehall      of residence portal. You can      only apply for a place in a hall of residence if your university place has      been confirmed!
You can      apply for a place in a hall of residence as soon as you have been admitted      to your studies and have proof of payment of the semester fee.Half of the free places are allocated to first-year      students and half to students on the waiting list.So be quick!If you are in the waiting list, you can expect to      wait approximately three semesters.
Check out thestudierendenWERK      Berlinwebsite for      more information. This website also lists external links which can be      helpful when searching for external providers of commercial and      non-commercial student accommodation as well as for shared rooms and      apartments - see the sections “Woanders wohnen (Living Elsewhere)” and      “Web-Wohnraumbörsen (Online Accommodation Forums)”.
The foundationBürgermeister-Reuter-Stiftungrents out single rooms, single and double apartments.
Studentendorf      Schlachtensee eGruns two      student villages. The student village Adlershof is relatively close to the      Wilhelminenhof campus - by Berlin standards.
Some municipal housing associations are also offering student apartments likeBerlinovoor GESOBAU with theirGESOcampus.
Good to know: just because an offer is described as a      “student apartment” or similar does not mean that it also has      student-friendly prices. Some commercial providers, in particular, charge      very high rates.
Shared accommodation (WG)
Shared accommodation is called Wohngemeinschaft and commonly abbreviated to WG in German.
You can search for shared accommodation offers onshared      accommodation portals.
If you have difficulty finding accommodation, it may      be worth considering renting a room in a shared apartment temporarily so      that you have a place to stay for the first few months. Once you have      arrived in Berlin, you can then look for a permanent solution without immediate pressure.
Own apartment
The best ways to look for an apartment arein the joint portal of the 6 major housing       associations in Berlin:https://inberlinwohnen.de/,on the websites of Berlin’shousing associationsandhousing       cooperatives,onreal       estate portals,in the housing market sections of newspapers and        magazines, e.g. Berliner Zeitung, Tagesspiegel, Tip Berlin and Zweite        Hand.
in the joint portal of the 6 major housing       associations in Berlin:https://inberlinwohnen.de/,
on the websites of Berlin’shousing associationsandhousing       cooperatives,
onreal       estate portals,
in the housing market sections of newspapers and        magazines, e.g. Berliner Zeitung, Tagesspiegel, Tip Berlin and Zweite        Hand.
Once you shortlisted an apartment during your search, you can use thequery serive of the Berlin rent indexto check the local comparative rent. That way you can gauge roughly whether the rent is appropriate.
Costs
In Berlin, rents for apartments and rates for rooms in shared accommodation have risen steeply in recent years. Berlin has become an expensive place to live.According to a study,a room in shared accommodation in Berlin now costs a monthly average of 640 €.
However, the cost of a room in shared accommodation or an apartment depends very much on the individual offer. Factors influencing the amount include location, size, condition (building and apartment), furnishings, furnished/ unfurnished condition and who is letting the accommodation.For example, apartments and rooms in shared accommodation located within Berlin’s circle line (S41/S42, "Ringbahn") are particularly sought after. So look for offers in peripheral locations as well. In Berlin, it is normal to travel 45 minutes from your home to any given destination.
Tips:
do not be deterred by the Berlin housing market; if      necessary, clarify financing options (financing)
plan enough time and search thoroughly for suitable      offers
be quick and have all documents ready
it often helps to go in person (apartment viewings,      shared accommodation interviews)
be pleasant, friendly and patient
do not accept dubious offers (e.g. no signed rental      contract, payments without a valid rental contract)
Low income?
If you have a low income, you may be able to apply for      ahousing      allowance (Wohngeld)and/ or ahousing entitlement certificate (Wohnberechtigungsschein/WBS).
Ahousing      allowanceis  a form of      financial support. You can only apply for a housing  allowance if you are      not entitled to receive a BAföG study grant.
Holders of ahousing      entitlement certificate (Wohnberechtigungsschein/WBS)can apply for affordable social housing. These offers      are marked with the abbreviation “WBS”. A WBS for people with special      housing needs also exists.
It may be worth looking into it to see whether you may be entitled.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service