Application via the application portal of HTW Berlin
Table of contents
When should you apply directly to HTW Berlin?
Please apply directly to HTW Berlin if
you obtained your higher education entry qualification or first academic degree in Germany or have a German higher education entry qualification (e.g. attendance at a German school abroad, European Baccalaureate).
are a national of a Member State of the European Union or a national of a country from the European Economic Area.
you want tochange study programme within HTW Berlin.
you have successfully completed theStudienkolleg(university preparatory course) in Germany and passed the final assessment test.
you are applying for one of the following study programmes:study programmes without admission restrictionsBachelor’s programmes withaptitude testand Master’s programmes offered byFaculty 5 – School of Design and CultureMaster’s programme inInternational and Development Economicsacareer-integrated or further education Bachelor’s or Master’s study programme
study programmes without admission restrictions
Bachelor’s programmes withaptitude testand Master’s programmes offered byFaculty 5 – School of Design and Culture
Master’s programme inInternational and Development Economics
acareer-integrated or further education Bachelor’s or Master’s study programme
Online application
Follow ouronline application. Here you will receive your applicant number. You may be asked for required documents. These documents must be uploaded during the application, only then will your application be complete. Please submit you complete application within theapplication periodand early before the application deadline. We recommend that you find out about any required documents before you apply.
Upload the requested application documents (if necessary)
Based on your application details, the system will automatically ask for the required documents during your application. Please then upload these documents.
Help us to evaluate your application much faster!Please note the following when uploading documents.
Prefer PDF format. (Image file formats as JPG are accepted exceptionally.)
Sort multi-page documents in right order. (e.g. transcripts)
Select an appropriate file name (e.g. 'transcript_Uni_...', 'period of study_Uni_...', 'deregistration_Uni_...')
Ensure that the files are easy to read and of good quality.
In case of questions, please send an email to theStudent Service Centre.
Reporting subsequent changes
If you want to makechanges to your contact details(e.g. address or telephone number)
please change them directly in the Hochschulstart portal if you are applying for a Bachelor's programme that is being coordinated via hochschulstart.de.
in all other cases please send an email with the changes and proof to theStudent Service Centre. Please state your applicant number and your chosen study programme in the subject line of the email.
Subsequent application-related changes (e.g. if you wish to change your chosen study programme or study type) are only possible if you fill out a new online application.
Submitted applications can no longer be amended. If you wish to add information or have noticed a mistake and your application has not yet been processed by the university, you will have to cancel your application before you can make any changes. The university will not process your application until you have resubmitted it by the application deadline.
Checking the current status of your application
You can find out about the current processing status of your application via theapplication portal of the HTW Berlin.You will need the login details that were sent to you by email after you submitted your application. If you want to check the status of your application, please only use the application portal and do not enquire by email or telephone, the faster we can process all applications.Notices of admission or refusalwill be sent out approximately four weeks after the application deadline via the application portal.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service