Repeating an examination
Table of contents
Module examinations failed
The modules in Bachelor’s and Master’s study programmes are subject to examination. Some modules consist of several units, which are each completed with their own examination. The units are weighted with a percentage and are combined together to form the module grade. A module examination is considered to be failed if
you have not received the grade of at least "sufficient" (grade 4.0) or "pass" or
the weighted average of the unit grades does not amount to a minimum grade of 4.0.
Repeating an examination
You can repeat an examination
in the second examination period in the same semester or
at the latest within the repeatability period.
An examination can no longer be repeated if
you have passed the examination or
you have already repeated it twice.
4th examination attempt
In accordance with Art. 15, para. 3 of the Study and Examination Framework Regulations (RstPO) of HTW Berlin, failed module examinations may be repeated twice or, if necessary, a third time after prior subject guidance. For this purpose, an appointment must be made with the academic advisor immediately, and the completedform [PDF]must be submitted to the Student Services Department within four weeks of the subject guidance session. In this case, re-registration for a subsequent examination attempt may not take place before the first examination period of the following semester or, alternatively, a later semester.
Repeatability period: Three-semester rule
When the new Berlin Higher Education Act came into force, the Academic Senate of HTW Berlin resolved that the three-semester rule, i.e. the repeatability period, would no longer apply. This has been formally suspended, i.e. effectively eliminated.
Registering to repeat an examination
For repeat examinations the same rules apply as for other examinations. You mustregister for the examination.
If youfailed to register for an examination during the first registration period or did not attendorpass an examination in the first examination period, you must register yourself to repeat the examination in the second examination period or within the next two semesters.
If youdid not attend or pass an examination in the second examination period, you must take the module once again in the following semesters and register for the examination in order to be able to repeat the examination.
Repeating examinations for distance-learning study programmes
You are automatically registered for the first and second examination period for all modules that you are taking. If you did not pass the examination in the second period either, you must take the module again. Any existing examination components, e.g. coursework and assignments, cannot be transferred to the new semester. If you re-take a module, you must also complete these examination components again. The repeatability period also applies for distance-learning study programmes.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service