Changing study programme or university
Table of contents
Accreditation of previous modules and examinations and applying for a higher subject semester
If you have previously been or are currently enrolled at another   German university, on the basis of your application HTW Berlin will   assess
to what extent your previous modules and examinations can be accredited for your chosen study programme at HTW Berlin and
in which semester of your chosen study programme you can be placed.
The  accreditation of modules and examinations is conducted by HTW  Berlin  on the basis of the current University Regulations (§ 18, Annex  3) and  the Framework Regulations for Study Programmes and Examinations  (§ 29, §  30).
A list of the necessary proof of modules and examinations for accreditation has been compiled for youhere.
Check theonline application for HTW Berlinto see for which study programmes you are eligible to apply for a higher subject semester. You can only apply if higher subject semesters for that study programme are offered as an option for you to select. Your eligibility will be assessed at HTW Berlin based on yoursubmitted documents.
In study programmes of the same name, the numbering of the subject semesters will be continued.
In related study programmes, your accumulated credits will determine which subject semester you are admitted to.
If you apply for a higher subject semester, you increase your chances of admission to HTW Berlin. In many study programmes there are more free places for higher subject semesters than there are applications.
Please be informed that you also need to register via the HTW application portal within the application periods when you are interested in applying for a higher semester and applying for a study programme which requires an aptitude test and if you have previously been or are currently enrolled at another   German university.Information regarding the required aptitude tests can be found on the degree programme websites.
What will be accredited?
Modules at another university or in another study programme will be accredited if
they were completed at a state-accredited university and
do not exhibit any substantial differences in terms of quality, level, learning outcomes, scope and profile.
The responsible subject assessor or module coordinator of your chosen study programme will check the equivalence of all
completed examinations/modules,
failed examinations/modules (grade 5.0) and
examination attempts.
This assessment forms the basis for the decision of the examination board.Accreditation is awarded for
modules assessed as equivalent
modules taken abroad at university level
specialist foreign language modules
Accreditation is not awarded for
modules not assessed as equivalent
individual units (only complete modules are accredited).
Please mind that achievements, which are part if your university entrance qualification, cannot be considered for accreditation.
Can I opt out of accreditation?
In principle, all modules and examination attempts must be assessed for accreditation, even supposedly "unrelated study programmes". It is therefore not possible to start your studies right from the beginning again or improve your grades. However, you can opt out of accreditation for
modules or examinations that you completed abroad and
ungraded modules. In this case it is advisable to opt out of accreditation, as the subject will otherwise be accredited with the grade 4.0.
The accreditation opt-out declaration specifying the respective subjects must be submitted with the grade transcripts by the application deadline.
I have not completed any modules or registered for examinations
If      you havenot taken any examinationsand/or
if      you are notregistered for any upcoming examinations,
confirmation of this fact must be obtained from the examinations office of your university and submitted by the application deadline.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service