De-registration
Table of contents
De-registration at your request
If you would like to interrupt or discontinue your studies, please contact theStudent Advisory Servicefor advice first.
Submit an application for de-registration (available inLSF)by e-mail from your HTW accountto theStudent Services department.
Retrospective de-registration is not possible. De-registration by request will be effective from your requested time:
at the earliest upon receipt of the application
at the latest with effect from the end of the current semester.
An official de-registration certificate and a certificate for your pension scheme provider will be sent to you by Students Services department.
Automatic de-registration
You will be de-registered without request if you
fail to re-register as required, e.g. if the required semester fee is not paid on time or is not paid in the full amount (not including late penalty fee) or you have not provided the necessary proof for your re-registration on time.
do not pass modules and examinations or the final examination.
pass your final examination (written thesis and oral examination). On the day you pass the final oral examination, you have successfully completed your study programme at HTW Berlin. De-registration will take place automatically. Approximately six to eight weeks after you have passed your final examination, the examinations office will inform you that you can collect your certificates and degree documents, including the official de-registration certificate and a certificate for your pension scheme provider.
Return the HTW StudentCard
If you de-register, your status as a student will end and also your   right to possess theHTW student card(HSC). Please make sure any  remaining credit is paid  out to you and then return your HSC to the  Student Services department.
A proof of destruction of the HSC by photograph of the HSC cut into pieces may also be accepted. The owner of the destroyed HSC should still be visible.  Please attach this photograph to your e-mail with the application for  de-registration.
Please note
If you de-register in the current semester, you are stillentitled to take examinationseven after you have de-registered. You can take examinations for the first time or repeat them. Therepeatability periodfor modules and examinations will continue, as this semester will be counted as a repeat semester.
The same applies for studies in thefinal semester(exception: Public und Nonprofit-Management). If you have submitted your final thesis in the current semester and you only have the final oral examination left to do in the following semester, you do not need to re-register for the following semester. Even if you have de-registered, you can still take the final oral examination.
When you de-register, you are not long entitled tomandatory health insurancein the statutory health insurance system based on your student status. However, if you do not have any other form of health insurance, you are entitled to another month of cover from your statutory health insurance provider. After you have de-registered, please promptly contact your health insurance provider.
If you receive the German state student grant or loan (BAföG), inform the relevant authority (the Amt für Ausbildungsförderung) immediately about your de-registration.
In case of de-registration before the beginning of the respective semester, you can apply for areimbursement of the semester feeminus an administrative fee of 50 euros.
In case of de-registration after the beginning of the respective  semester, you can apply for aproportionate reimbursement of the semester ticket fee.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service