Registering for examinations
Table of contents
Compulsory registration
Before you are permitted to sit an examination for your attended study programme, you must first register in the LSF. Registration is compulsory for
all examination forms (e.g. written examinations, presentations, assignments, projects and sewing work).
graded and undifferentiated assessments.
Examination and registration periods
You can decide which of the two examination periods you wish to register for inwinter semester 2024/25. You can also choose both if you want to repeat exams or if only the 2nd examination period suits you better, timewise.
Registration period: 16th to 20th December 2024
and 06th to 10th January 2025(official deadline)
Examination period: 20th Januar to 08th February 2025
Registration period: 03th to 11th März 2025 (official deadline)
Examination period: 24th March to 05th April 2025
Online registration via the LSF
For examinations you must always register online via the LSF portal during theregistration periods.
Online registration is binding: after the registration period has ended, it is no longer possible to register or de-register for an examination.
For module examinations with multiple examination components, registration covers all components taking place in that examination period.
Please check at an early stage whether your HTW account is working and whether you have correctly registered or de-registered for all examinations. If you are unable to log in, submit aWiederherstellungsauftrag [PDF](reactivation request). In order to check the status of your examinations in the LSF, go to "Info on Exams (internships)". If anything is incorrect, please immediately contactyour team at the Student Services Office.
Astep-by-step guide to registering for examinations in the LSF(only available in German)  can be found on the website of the Information Technology Centre.
Written registration for examinations
If no more modules are offered for the examination regulations of your study programme, you cannot register online in the LSF for examinations. This is the case if you are behind with your studies.
Submit theExamination registration form [PDF]in writing toyour team at the Student Services Office. The registration periods are the same as for the online registration via the LSF.
Failure to register
The registration deadlines for examinations are official deadlines. This means that it is not possible to register later on. If you have missed the deadline for reasons beyond your control, you should immediately submit awritten examination registration requestto the relevant member of staff in the Examinations Office with the following information:
Explanation and proof of your reasons for missing the deadline
Module and/or examination number
Name of the examination (module name)
Lecturer
Examination date
Handwritten signature
Foreign languages / selection of variants
Make sure you select the right foreign languages variant for you. After registration, the options for changing your variant are limited and can only be undertaken in consultation with the Examinations Office. The Framework Regulations for Study Programmes and Examinations do not permit passed language courses to be exchanged, even for a higher language level.
Examination registration for study programmes in the Division of Continuing Education (ZbwS)
You are automatically registered for the first and second examination period for all modules that you are taking.
Procedure for ConREM and Landscape Archaeology
Students on the
Construction and Real Estate ManagementMaster’s study programme are automatically registered for all module examinations. It is not possible to register for examinations via the LSF.
Landscape ArchaeologyMaster’s study programme are only required to register for supplementary module examinations (AWE) via the LSF. Registration is automatic for all other module examinations.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service