A to Z
A
Studyabroad(German:Ausland) for one or two semesters at one of HTW Berlin’s 150 partner universities. The International Office can advise you on financial assistance forinternships abroad(Auslandspraktika).
There are variousaccommodation options(German:Wohnmöglichkeiten) in Berlin, ranging from shared accommodation (called Wohngemeinschaften or WG for short in German) to a private apartment or a room in the student dormitory operated by Studentenwerk Berlin.
You can change youraddress(German:Adresse) at any time in theLSFunder "Persönliche Daten ändern" (change personal details).
If you would like to study at HTW Berlin, you need to fulfil certainadmission requirements(German:Zulassungsvoraussetzungen). To find out which requirements apply for your chosen study programme, please refer to the study programme page or the Eligibility and Admission Regulations.
To study at HTW Berlin you need to submit anapplication(German:Bewerbung).
Contact the Student Council (German:AStA) for matters such as semester tickets, legal advice, ISIC and especially for information for first semester students
B
TheBachelor's degreeis the first academic degree. At HTW there are over 30Bachelor's study programmes.
For information on how to apply forBAföG(German state student grant and loan) go to theBAföG advisory sessionsat HTW Berlin. Twice a week a member of staff from Studentenwerk Berlin is on hand to answer your questions.
Block seminars(German:Blockveranstaltungen) are conducted over the course of a whole day or several days. To find out whether a module involves a block seminar, please refer to the programme schedule in theLSF.
You can attend abridging course(in German) (German:Brückenkurs) in mathematics, physics or programming for support with the transition between school and university.
C
Acampusis where the buildings of the university are located. HTW Berlin has two: theTreskowallee campusand theWilhelminenhof campus.
TheCareer Servicesof HTW Berlin offers interesting workshops on topics such as vocational guidance, careers, career planning, job applications and finding an internship or employment.
From weekly sports training to workshops, the wide-rangingsports programmeoffered by theCentral Unit Sports(German:Hochschulsport) is an inexpensive way to stay fit and active while you are studying.
Are you interested inchanging your study programme? Readherefor more information.
HTW Berlin supportsstudents with children(German: Studierende mit Kind) and provides help with organising their studies.
Photocopying machines forcopying and printing(German:Drucken und Kopieren) are available for you to use in nearly all HTW Berlin buildings. Payment is made with your StudentCard, which you need to load with credit in advance using the special card loading terminals.
Credits(German:Leistungspunkte) refer to credit points as defined by the ECTS (European Credit Transfer System). The workload in each study programme is measured incredit points. 1 credit point equates to 30 hours of work.
D
There is a setdeadline(German:Frist) for completing examinations/module certificates, for details see repeatability period.
Deregistration(German:Exmatrikulation) is carried out on request or automatically.
Disabled students(German:Studierende mit Behinderung) will find a barrier-free campus at HTW Berlin and extensivesupport for disabled and chronically ill students.
Distance-learning study programmes(German:Fernstudium) are usually completed while you are in employment. At HTW Berlin there arecareer-integrated Bachelor's and Master's study programmes.
Alldocumentslike university regulations, articles of HTW Berlin, and study and examination regulations take legal effect when they are published in the HTW Berlin Official Information Circulars (Amtliche Mitteilungsblätter).
Do you havedoubts about your studies(Studienzweifel)? The student counselling service offers support.
E
You can access youremailsviaHTW webmail. You will automatically receive a personal email address (student ID number@htw-berlin.de, e.g. s0000001@htw-berlin.de) when you enrol. Important information is always sent to this address. Please check your email account regularly.
What happens after you have been granted admission? For details aboutenrolment(German:Immatrikulation) and starting your studies, see theinformation for new students.
You can print out yourenrolment certificate(German: Immatrikulationsbescheinigung) yourself in the campus management system (LSF).
The full-time and part-timeEqual Opportunities Officers(German: Frauen- und Gleichstellungsbeauftragte) can be contacted about equal opportunities issues and can advise female students regarding conflict situations and provide support in cases of sexual harrassment and violence.
Forevents(German:Veranstaltungen) with a noise level exceeding 45 dB(A) after 10.00 pm, a special permit must be obtained at least eight weeks in advance from theEvents Service (in German).
A module usual ends with anexamination(German:Prüfung), e.g. written test, workpiece, presentation or assignment. You must register for each examination within a set period of time via the LSF, even if you already to the examination at the beginning of the semester.
Over the course of a study programme the demands placed on you can increase in many regards and not only in terms of what you have to learn. If you are experiencing problems such asexamination anxiety(German:Prüfungsangst) or other difficulties, it can be helpful to get somepsychological counsellingfrom HTW Berlin.
Theexamination board(German:Prüfungsausschuss) ensures that the requirements set out in the examination regulations are complied with. The members of the examination board decide in cases of doubt and in exceptional cases at the student’s request. The decision is communicated in writing to the student in accordance with the application Examination Regulations. The contact details for the examination board can be found on the study programme web page under "Contact".
You can apply for anexternal leave semester(German:Urlaubssemester) if you have a valid reason.
F
To organise your studies efficiently, you need to know whichfaculty(German:Fachbereich) you are assigned to. Contact the faculty administration if you have questions about such matters as module registration or regarding your lecturers.
You have probably already met some of the actively committed students from yourFaculty Student Council. The faculty student councils (German:Fachschaftsräte) organise the orientation days at the beginning of every semester. As student representatives, they represent the interests of the students in their faculty and provide help with questions and problems relating to studies.
Have you noticed that a toilet isn’t working, a tap is dripping or a window is broken? The Building Services Management department appreciates your support in spotting any problems. Please report thefault or damage(in German:Störung oder Schaden) so it can be fixed.
There are nofees(German:Gebühren) for attended study programmes; instead students pay semester fees, which are largely to cover the cost of the semester ticket. Details and a breakdown of the semester fee can be found undersemester fee.
If you have questions aboutfinancing(German:Finanzierung) your studies, you can find many answershere.
You will receive an email or post card once yourfinal certificatesare ready for you to get picked up, they can get sent to you too. You have to return your HTW StudentCard to the student services department before receiving your certificates.
First-semester students(German: Erstsemester) can find all information about starting their studies in theinformation for first-semester students.
TheForeign Languages Centre(German:Zentraleinrichtung Fremdsprachen) offers courses during the semester and intensive courses in eight different languages during the holidays. The Media Centre can be used for self-directed learning.
Did you fail your final thesis? Maybe it can be acredited as afree trial, the requirements can be readhere.
G
An overview ofgrade awarding(German:Notenvergabe) can be found under § 14 of theFramework Regulations for Study Programmes and Examinations (RStPO)(in German).
Verifiablegrade transcripts(German:Leistungsbescheinigungen) are available free of charge in theLSF. Grade transcripts with a signature and stamp are available fromyour responsible team at the Student Services Office.
Do want to participate in selected lectures as aguest listener(German:Gasthöhrer_in) at HTW Berlin.
H
Proof of validhealth insurance(German:Krankenversicherung) is required for the duration of your studies at HTW Berlin.
When are theholidays(German:Ferien)? The currentsemester datesprovide information about the teaching period and non-teaching period.
I
Are youill(German:krank) on the examination day? For information on what you need to do, seewhat happens if you are unable to take an examination.
Forinternational students(German:internationale Studierende) at HTW Berlin who are completing their entire study programme in Germany, the International Office offers special guidance services.Exchange students(German:Austauschstudent_innen) can also receive support from the International Office.
International Student Identity Card (ISIC): see StudentCard
Aninternship(German:Praktikum) is a mandatory part of studies. Internships must be conducted in accordance with the Study Regulations applicable for your study programme and theFramework Internship Regulations (in German), which in addition to an application and internship contract also contain instructions for writing the internship report.
K
I have taken the examination, so why does it still say"KP"in the LSF? If you have taken an examination and grading has been closed for the lecturer, the system will display "KP" if the grades have not yet been uploaded. Please be patient for a while and check with your lecturer if necessary.
L
New students can gain basic knowledge needed for their studies at thelearning centre(German:Lernzentrum). The foundations of mathematics, computing, business and design are taught here. The courses are held by trained students from the faculties.
At the twolibraries(German:Bibliotheken) of HTW Berlin you can research literature, borrow books and browse through virtual journal catalogues.
You can rentlockerson the Wilhelminenhof campus in building A in two different sizes from a monthly rental of 2.40 EUR through theservice provider "AstraDirect". A deposit of 30 euros is charged for the first provision. Alternatively, you have the option of taking out a protection contract for 10 euros per year. The contract is concluded for 12 months and can be terminated with four weeks' notice to the end of the contract period. If you have any questions, please send anemail to the Construction Team of the Technical Services Departmentat HTW Berlin.
TheLost Property Office(German:Fundbüro) keeps lost property for three months.
The campus management system — theLSFonline portal — is used for module registration, exam registration, printing out grade transcripts. It also contains information about teaching, studies and research, e.g. the programme schedule and module descriptions.
M
TheMaster’s degreeis the second university directly. Students can study for a Master’s degree directly after their Bachelor’s degree or after gaining their first professional experience. HTW Berlin offers over 30Master’s study programmes.
Modules(German:Module) are learning units that increase students’ skills and knowledge through different forms of teaching and learning. Students are assessed with an examination at the end of each module.
TheModule Catalogue(German:Vorlesungsverzeichnis) in theLSFcontains a list of all modules, an overview of cancelled modules and detailed module descriptions.
Module registration(German:Belegung von Modulen) usually takes place via the campus management system LSF. For certain groupsspecial rulesapply.
Moodleis an electronic learning platform where you can find information and documents relating to your modules. You can also communicate with other module participants and upload your own lesson materials, e.g. presentations.
O
Theopening hoursof the buildings (German:Öffnungszeiten der Gebäude) are set out in § 3 of the HausO.
Have you submitted your degree thesis and now need to do youroral examination(German:Kolloquium)? You will receive an invitation to take your oral examination from the faculty administration. If the oral examination is all you have left to complete, you do not need to re-register for the next semester.
Anoverview of grades(German:Notenübersicht) can always be found in the LSF, for details see grade transcript.
P
Parking(German:Parken) on the campus is subject to a regular parking fee.
You can alsostudy part-time(German:Teilzeitstudium).
Internalpost, e.g. messages to professors or applications to work as a student assistant, can be sent via theService Pool (in German).
You arepregnant(German:schwanger)? Then please let us know and find more information about how it affects your studieshere. OurFamiliy support centercan give you helpful tips and a good welcome package for your child.
Programme counsellors(German:Studienfachberater_innen) advise students and prospective students on subject-specific questions about the study programme, the Study and Examination Regulations or the accreditation of module certificates when changing study programme or university. Contact details can be found on the study programme web page under "Contact".
Programme managers(German:Studiengangsprecher_innen) represent the study programme both within and outside of the university. They are responsible for ensuring the programme of studies on offer. Their contact details can be found on the study programme web page under "Contact".
To borrow mobileprojectors(German: Beamer) e.g. for presentations or thesis defences/ viva voce — submit theform for borrowing a projector [PDF]with confirmation from your faculty administration to the key and building services department (Schlüssel- und Gebäudeservice). You will need to show your student card or identity card when you pick up the projector.
R
You can print out manyrecords and transcripts(German:Bescheinigungen) yourself free of charge in theLSF.Records and transcriptsthat are subject to a fee are issued by the Student Service Centre. You can also obtainofficially attested copieshere.
You might be able to get areimbursement of your semester fee, fulfilling certain requirements.
Failed module examinations can only be repeated a maximum of twice. Therepeatability period(German:Wiederholbarkeitsfrist) requires repeat examinations for modules to be completed within the semester in which the module was first registered for or within the two following semesters.
If you wish to continue studying next semester, make sure you pay the semester fee within there-registration period.
S
For questions aboutscholarships(German:Stipendien) please contact theStudy Advisory Service.
Thesemester fee(German:Semesterbeitrag) must be paid when you enrol and when you re-register.
Thesemester grade transcript(German:Semesterbescheinigung) lists all completed modules and grades. Via theLSF, it is available for you to print out free of charge at any time.
Thesemester ticketis a personal, non-transferrable ticket for using public transport for a period of one semester.
Smoking(German:Rauchen) is forbidden in all buildings and enclosed spaces of HTW Berlin. It is only permitted outdoors away from the building entrances (HausO § 6).
TheStudentCardof HTW Berlin is your student ID card, canteen (Mensa) card, library card and semester ticket. To benefit internationally from student discounts, you can apply to the Student Council (AStA) for an International Student Identity Card (ISIC). You can also show this card instead of your passport when public transport tickets are being checked.
Students can get actively involved in thestudents' representative bodies (in German)(German:Studierendenvertretung) at HTW Berlin, e.g. the faculty student councils, the Student Parliament or the Student Council (AStA).
For all questions relating to enrolment, re-registration, examinations and grade transcript, please contact theStudent Service Centre(German:Studierenden-Service-Center).
StudierendenwerkBerlin (the student services organisation for Berlin) supports students with regard to financial, social, cultural and health-related issues.
studi.news, the newsletter for students of HTW Berlin, is published once a month in German and English. Recommended reading!
Thestudy regulations for your study programme(German:Ordnungen Ihres Studiengangs) contain important regulations regarding the course of your studies. The can be found on the web page of your study programme under "Information > Detailed information". In addition to this,framework regulations (in German)apply to all of the university.
Supplementary modules(AWE) offer you the chance to look beyond the limits of your chosen subject area. You are required to take a certain number of supplementary modules, but you are free to choose which ones.
T
Anythefts(German:Diebstahl) should be immediately be reported to the police, your manager if you are a member of staff and theBuilding Services Management (in German); outside of working hours contact the security staff (HausO § 10(2)).
Tutorials(German:Tutorium) examine the learning material in depth. They are led by tutors who are usually still students themselves. Regular tutorials are offered in the learning centres of HTW Berlin.
V
VPN:Some services, e.g. literature databases, can only be access from the HTW campus. To use these services off campus, you need to install a VPN client on your computer and log in with your HTW Berlin account. Thedownload and installation instructionsfor various operating systems can be found on the website of the Information Technology Centre.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service