Application via uni-assist
Table of contents
When should you apply via uni-assist?
You shoul apply viauni-assistif
you are not a national of a European Union country or a member state of the Agreement on the European Economic Areaand
obtained your higher education entry qualification or first academic degree outside of Germany.
This also applies if you are currently enrolled or were previously enrolled on a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree programme at another German university but have not yet obtained a degree and wish totransfer to HTW Berlin.
uni-assist will assess whether your foreign certificates meet the standards of the Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs  (Central Office for Foreign Education – ZaB) and are sufficient for admission to higher education in Germany. Your foreign grades will be converted to the German grading system. All applications that meet the general admission requirements will be forwarded to the university for further processing. Applying via uni-assist issubject to fees.
When you should apply directly to HTW Berlin, please readhere.
Application documents
Collect the documents you needwell in advance, at least two months before the application deadline. The sooner you submit your documents, the more time you will have should you be asked to provide additional documents. Required documents includeproof of your education from your secondary school leaving certificate to your current education status, including grading system and average grade, if this is not clear from the documents,proof of language proficiencyother application documents (e.g. CV, copy of your passport, letter of motivation, APS-certificatre,Test AS),If you have previous periods of study in Germany, please submit your certificate of enrolment or exmatriculation as well as a verified transcript of records to uni-assist.
proof of your education from your secondary school leaving certificate to your current education status, including grading system and average grade, if this is not clear from the documents,
proof of language proficiency
other application documents (e.g. CV, copy of your passport, letter of motivation, APS-certificatre,Test AS),
If you have previous periods of study in Germany, please submit your certificate of enrolment or exmatriculation as well as a verified transcript of records to uni-assist.
We recommend to send all requireddocuments as officially attested copies(with a seal of authentication and the signature of the authenticating person). A simple copy of your application documents is usually accepted when applying to HTW Berlin.
All application documents must be submitted in German or English. Documents in other languages must be submitted with an officially attested German or English translation, otherwise they will not be accepted. A list of officially authorised translators in Germany can be obtained from theBundesverband der Dolmetscher und Übersetzer(BDÜ, Federal Association of Interpreters and Translators).
If you are applying to more than one university via uni-assist, you only need to submit each document once.
Please also note thecountry-specific requirements on the uni-assist website.If you can provide proof of your refugee status, please read theinformation for refugees wishing to study.
Complete the online application
If you are applying for aBachelor’s programme, please proceed as follows:
Register onhochschulstart.de
Submit your application — by theapplication deadline— via theuni-assist online portal.
Enter your user data from Hochschulstart (BID and BAN) into the uni-assist online portal.Please remember to prioritise your applications on Hochschulstart.de. If you absolutely want to study at HTW Berlin, please give your application priority 1.To apply for a Master’s study programms please submit your application directly via uni-assist. There is no need to register via hochschulstart.de.
The online application process via uni-assistis mandatory. Here you can:
create and manage your applications
directly select study programmes
submit documents via upload
view the current processing status of your application and
contact uni-assist
Costs
Please do not forget to pay theprocessing coststo uni-assist at the latest by the application deadline. Your application cannot be considered otherwise.
What happens after you apply?
uni-assist will check your application documents according to the criteria of HTW Berlin. You will be informed of the result in writing by email and by post. If the requirements have been met, your application will be forwarded to HTW Berlin. The university will then assess your application. You will always be informed about your admission by HTW Berlin.You can check the current processing status of your application in theapplication portal of HTW Berlinas soon as you have received your login details by email. Approximately four weeks after the application deadline you can download your notice of admission or refusal.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service