From starting your studies to embarking on your career - every phase brings certain challenges. Here, you can find an overview with information and contact partners for the different phases of your studies at HTW Berlin.
Study organisation: navigating your studies
Table of contents
Important information about starting your studies
A very warm welcome! Your enrolment marks the start of your studies at HTW Berlin.
Useful information when starting your studies:
After successful enrolment, you will receive a welcome email with all the importantinformation for first-year studentsand the user name/activation code forsetting up your personal HTW Berlin account.
All communication at HTW Berlin takes place via yourHTW Berlin email address. You should therefore read these emails regularly and set upforwarding mechanismsif necessary.
Supplementary courseshelp you to refresh your school knowledge and start your studies well prepared.
To make it easier for you as you start your studies, you will be automatically registered for the planned courses in the first semester (for exceptions, seecourse enrolment).
During theFreshers' Welcome Week, staff members responsible for your degree programme will explain everything you need to know about studying at HTW Berlin.
All Bachelor students take at least oneforeign languageand choose anelective foreign language modulewhen registering for examinations.
All important deadlines and dates are listed in theAcademic Calendar, e.g. the registration times for the twoexamination periods.
There are various contact persons at HTW Berlin who are there to support you as you navigate your studies.
Student life is about more than just studying - HTW Berlin has auniversity sportsprogramme and many differentstudent initiativesthat are happy to have you join them.
The first semesters - laying the foundations
The first three semesters of the degree programme make up the foundation phase of your studies. In this phase, the main focus is placed on acquiring the core competencies of the respective degree programme. Each semester, you must firstre-registerpunctually by transferring the semester fee.
On the agenda in this phase:
From the second semester onwards, you take your courses independently. This is a prerequisite for being allowed to take the correspondingexaminationat the end. The respectivefacultiesare responsible forcourse enrolment.
Interested in asemester abroad? It is advisable to obtain all information about the procedure and application process at the information events organised by the International Office at an early stage.
Sometimesdoubts arise during the first few semesters, e.g. because the degree programme does not match your own interests and expectations. TheStudent Advisory ServiceandPsychological Counselling Servicecan support you.
If you would like to apply for a trainee student job, you can use the information, advice and events by theCareer Services.
The final semesters - setting the course for your career
In the subsequent semesters, the degree programme becomes more advanced, and each student usually has a choice of different compulsory elective and/or specialist modules, allowing them to set individual priorities.
On the agenda in subsequent semesters:
All Bachelor students complete aspecialised internshiplasting several months. This must be sought out independently and applied for in consultation with the internship coordinator of the degree programme.
TheCareer Service events, such as theinternship weeks, provide support in the search for an internship and with the application process.
In order to complete the Bachelor's degree programme, athesisand the corresponding final oral examination must be completed. TheLearning Centreoffers information on academic writing, as well as workshops to improve writing skills.
Planning to continue your studies or start your career? All HTW Berlin Master's degree programmes are on show at the"Match your Master's" information day.
For those planning on embarking on careers, the Career Services offers training and individual coaching, and organises practical days and company excursions as well ascareer entry weeks.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service