Scholarships
Table of contents
A scholarship is a way to finance your studies and simultaneously benefit from the networking and educational opportunities offered by the organisation offering the scholarship. The grades are no longer the pivotal factor for the vast majority of organisations offering such opportunities, but rather the living standards experienced by candidates as well as their levels of commitment and performance.
With over 2,000 scholarship organisations to choose from, one thing is clear: looking for scholarships takes serious research!TheDAAD Databaseoffers a good overview of scholarship programmes for international students.
Deutschlandstipendium at HTW Berlin
Once a year, HTW Berlin awards Deutschlandstipendien. Funding of 300 euros per month is given to students whose previous performance promises outstanding academic and professional achievements in the future.
Scholarships for special target groups
TheProf. Heinrich Aumund      Scholarship- for HTW Berlin students pursuing      degrees inelectricalengineering, computer engineeringandmechanical engineering
Glatthaar Groupscholarships for students in the field ofcivil engineering
Scholarship programmes of the German University Foundation forstudents who are refugees fleeing      from unstable regionsWelcomeforBachelor studentshochformforMaster students
Forinternational studentsit is worth looking in theDAAD scholarship database. HTW Berlin offers the following awards and scholarships:DAAD prize for international studentsDAAD funding to enable international students to complete their studies
DAAD prize for international students
DAAD funding to enable international students to complete their studies
DAAD scholarships for more equal opportunities
Scholarship representatives at HTW Berlin
The following professors represent "their" foundation at the university. They will answer questions about funding opportunities or applications and provide support for scholarship holders at HTW Berlin.
Prof.Dr.Sebastian Dullien
Prof.Dr.Stefanie Molthagen-Schnöring
Prof.Dr.Volker Quaschning
Prof.Dr.Marita Balks
Prof. Dr.Jürgen Radel
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service