What happens if you are unable to take an examination
Corona-Virus: Important notice
Please note that due to the current situation due to the coronavirus not all information on this page is valid at the moment. Please read ourFAQ pagesto find out about the measures taken as well as changes in the procedures. The FAQ pages are being continuously updated, so we recommend that you check them regularly.
Table of contents
Inability to take an examination
If you do not participate inexaminationsdespite having registered, you are not required to submit a doctor’s note. Simply re-register for the examination in the second examination period or for the next semester. Please observe therepeatability period.
If you become ill while writing yourfinal thesis, you can apply for anextension of the writing period.
Examination dates and examination attempts
Two examination periods are offered for each semester. For each examination, you have a total of three semesters before the repeatability period ends. This means you have a choice ofsix dateson which you can take an examination.
You havethree attemptsfor each examination.
This means:
If you register for but do not take an examination, you have forfeited one examination date, but no examination attempts.
If you fail or abandon an examination, you lose both an examination date and an attempt.
If you allow the repeatability period to expire, then you are considered to have forfeited all examination dates; any remaining attempts are also forfeited.
Recognition of hardship case
If the repeatability deadline has expired, the examination board may be able to recognise a special hardship case. To apply, you must immediately submit, i.e. with three work days, the following documents toyour competent team at the Student Services Office:
Hardship application can be found atLSF
Detailed explanation of the reason why you were unable to take the examination
Clear proof of this reason. A certificate of incapacity for work is not sufficient.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service