Master’s study programmes
Table of contents
Admission requirements
To apply for a Master’s study programme via the application portal of HTW Berlin
you must have successfully completed a Bachelor’s degree or
you are currently in the final semester of your Bachelor’s degree programme and have already registered to write your final thesis.
applicats with foreign certificates need a completed Bachelor`s dipolma.
A number of Master’s study programmes require a first academic degree with 210 ECTS. If you only have a degree with 180 ECTS, you can
request accreditation of professional experience after your first academic degree and/or subject-specific modules in the amount of the missing 30 ECTS or
be admitted on the condition that you complete certain additional modules or internships during the Master’s study programme in order to reach a combined total of 300 ETCS through your Bachelor’s and Master’s study programmes.
Different additional selection criteria apply for different study programmes. The applicable criteria are listed in the Eligibility and Admission Regulations for each study programme.
Application documents
After registering yourself at the HTW application portal, just follow the instructions and upload the neccessary documents where applicable.
If you completed your Bachelor's degree at HTW Berlin,
you do not need to upload any documents that relate to your studies at HTW Berlin. The Admissions Office already has this information.
You only need to upload documents thatrelate to additional studies completed outside of your study programme at HTW Berlin (e.g. proof of relevant vocational training or subject-specific professional experience after your Bachelor’s degree)are relevant for the selection procedure as specified in the Eligibility and Admission Regulations for your chosen Master’s study programme (e.g. proof of time abroad, letter of motivation, CV, personal profile,proof of English proficiency)
relate to additional studies completed outside of your study programme at HTW Berlin (e.g. proof of relevant vocational training or subject-specific professional experience after your Bachelor’s degree)
are relevant for the selection procedure as specified in the Eligibility and Admission Regulations for your chosen Master’s study programme (e.g. proof of time abroad, letter of motivation, CV, personal profile,proof of English proficiency)
Applying during your final semester
If you have not yet completed your Bachelor’s study programme, select “Completed first degree” as the type of eligibility for admission in your online application and enter your provisional average grade and today’s date as your graduation date. Applicants with a Bachelor’s degree from HTW Berlin should enter a "4.0" in their online application instead of their preliminary average grade.After being granted admission and enrolling, you must prove that you have successfully completed your Bachelor’s study programme by the following deadline:
20 January if you start studying in the winter semester
20 June if you start studying in the summer semester
If you have not obtained your Bachelor’s degree by the respective deadline, your enrolment on the Master’s programme will become invalid and you will be de-registered or re-assigned back to your Bachelor’s programme at HTW Berlin.Once you have successfully obtained your Bachelor’s degree, you will then have to apply again for your chosen Master’s programme at HTW Berlin.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service