English
At HTW Berlin you can choose between
modules with a study programme-related focusin which you learn specialist terminology
general language modulesto prepare you for language certificate examinations
You can also take a range of different language certificate examinations at HTW Berlin.
Table of contents
UNIcert® II
Requirements:Regular attendance in all courses (at least 80%)Achievement of certificate levels M2 and M3
Regular attendance in all courses (at least 80%)
Achievement of certificate levels M2 and M3
Scope:8 weekly study hours
Examination:Cumulative model
Grading:The final grade is calculated from the average of all individual grades, which are equally weighted
Certificates
At the Foreign Languages Centre you can prepare for the internationally recognised English certificates TOEFL, IELTS and TOEIC. All preparatory courses — regardless of the certificate examination — culminate with a university-internal module certificate. This module certificate can help you when applying to the International Office for a semester abroad in an English-speaking country.
TOEIC
Target group:Primarily students wishing to study abroad in an English-speaking country
Scope:1× 2 weekly study hours (34 hours)
Examination:The examination can be taken 2× year at HTW Berlin.
TOEFL
Target group:Students wishing to study in the USA, Canada or Japan
Scope:1× 4 weekly study hours or 68 intensive hours
Examination:Only a preparatory course can be taken at HTW Berlin. The examination is subject to fees and can only be taken at authorised institutions. During the course students acquire the skills and abilities required for the examination.
IELTS
Target group:Students wishing to study in Australia, Great Britain or Ireland
Scope:1× 4 weekly hours
Examination:Only a preparatory course can be taken at HTW Berlin. The examination is subject to fees and can only be taken at authorised institutions. During the course students acquire the skills and abilities required for the examination.
Head of Language Team - English
Deputy Manager
Lecturers
(Kopie 1)
(Kopie 3)
Associate Lecturer
(Kopie 5)
(Kopie 7)
(Kopie 8)
(Kopie 9)
(Kopie 10)
(Kopie 11)
(Kopie 12)
(Kopie 13)
(Kopie 14)
(Kopie 15)
(Kopie 16)
(Kopie 17)
(Kopie 18)
(Kopie 19)
(Kopie 20)
(Kopie 21)
(Kopie 22)
(Kopie 24)
(Kopie 25)
(Kopie 26)
(Kopie 27)
(Kopie 29)
(Kopie 30)
(Kopie 31)
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service