Internship
Table of contents
Compulsory internship phase in Germany or abroad
Most Bachelor’s study programmes at HTW Berlin include a set practical phase, usually in the form of an internship semester. The internship can be completed in Germany or abroad. Some study programmes require an internship abroad.
Attention: for the       Internship in BIB please check theBIB           Webpage, as there are different Rules and       Regulations.
Documents (not for BIB Students)
General requirements, e.g. the goals and principles, duration and assessment of the internship, are stipulated in the framework internship regulations (Rahmenpraktikumsordnung).
Additional or different requirementscan be found in the study regulations for your study programme.
If you want toapply for an internship, please submit the following documents to the internship coordinator for your study programme:theinternship application [PDF]andthe internship contract. A contract template can be found in the framework internship regulations (Annex 3).
theinternship application [PDF]and
the internship contract. A contract template can be found in the framework internship regulations (Annex 3).
If you want to apply foraccreditation of your internship, please submit the following documents to the internship coordinator for your study programme:the internship testimonial issued by the organisation where you completed your internship,confirmation from the organisation that you completed your internship,the internship report.
the internship testimonial issued by the organisation where you completed your internship,
confirmation from the organisation that you completed your internship,
the internship report.
In order foryour internship to be accredited, please submit copies of these documents to the Examinations Office.
Recognition of start-up activities within the framework of compulsory internships
The University Council of HTW Berlin has decided in its meeting on 25.5.2020 to extend internship opportunities due to the corona pandemic.§ Section 3, paragraph 2, sentence 2 of the Internship Regulations (Praxisordnung oder PraxO) is extended as follows for start-ups grounded by 31.1.2021:"In exceptional cases, the specialist internship can also be carried out by a self-employed commercial or freelance activity (also as a partner or associate or as a managing director or as a founder), if compelling reasons for this exist".For further details please refer tothis information. You can seek consulting here:http://entrepreneurship.htw-berlin.de/gruendung/gruendungsberatung/
Guidance and counselling
For information about internships, please see theweb pages for your study programme and faculty.
Theinternship coordinatorfor your study programme can answer any questions you may have about internships.
TheCareer Servicecan help with applications and finding an internship.
TheInternational Officewill advise you onfinancial assistance for internships abroad.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service