HTW Berlin - inspiring global professionals
HTW Berlin offers excellent teaching that gives you both practical and business skills. Broaden your expertise, apply your academic knowledge in case-based studies and learn from leading management experts at an award-winning Berlin university.
Advanced Master's programmes
Why HTW Berlin
HTW Berlin combines academic studies with a professionalapplied sciencesorientation. Benefit fromsmall groupsand practical elements including project work, case studies and the latest industry topics taught by professors in collaboration with industry partners and senior company managers.
Enjoying an excellentacademic reputation, HTW Berlin has received many prizes for exceptional innovation in the university sector: for our internal management reforms, the consultation and service packages offered to small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups and for our commitment to gender equality and barrier freedom. University rankings have consistently established us as one of the leading providers of a modern and professional education.
Thanks to a partnership strategy with leading local and international companies and a practice-oriented study approach, graduates from HTW Berlin have higheremployabilityand good career prospects. Academically qualified young professionals are ideally prepared for the international job market.
HTW Berlin islocated in one of the world’s most interesting and multifaceted capitals. Berlin attracts international professionals who come to study, live and work. In addition to its international flair, high standards and affordable living costs, it offers a broad range of leisure activities.
Benefit from WiFi in all university buildings, computer pools with the latest software and an Information Technology Centre with a hotline should you need assistance. These are just a few examples of theexcellent infrastructureenjoyed by students at HTW Berlin. The University Library also provides you with access to subject-related literature, electronic journals and daily newspapers.
Advanced Master's programmes
MBA & Engineering– The core objective of the three-semester interdisciplinary MBA&E programme is to give students in-depth knowledge in the fields of technology and business, allowing them to become successful managers in an international context.
MBA & Engineering in Life Science Management– This three-semester advanced course transitions professionals with Science Engineering, Biology, Chemistry, Pharmaceutics, Food Technology, Environmental Studies or Business backgrounds into senior management roles within the international life science industry.
Master’s programme Project Management and Data Science– This four-semester interdisciplinary programme will help you to successfully manage and supervise high-level projects in an international environment – as well as define, process and interpret extensive datasets to carry out analysis across different disciplines.
Master’s programme Professional IT and Digitalization– The three-semester programme provides in-depth knowledge in the field of enterprise information technology. Students learn to analyse and evaluate corporate landscapes as well as to plan and implement their repositioning in leading professional roles.
Other international programmes
Master’s programme Construction and Real Estate Management
Master’s programme International and Development Economics
Master’s programme International Business
Bachelor’s programme International Business
FAQ
When and where can I send in my application? How much does the degree programme cost? Are there scholarships for the study programmes? Where can I find information about starting life in Berlin? We answer yourmost important questions.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service