FAQ Studies & Application
FAQ Studies & Application
Ask Özgün: FAQ for prospective students
FAQ for prospective students
HTW Berlin operates approximately 80 practice-orientedBachelor’s and Master’s degree programmes. Das Spektrum umfasst Technik, Informatik, Wirtschaft, Gestaltung und Kultur. The range of subject areas offered includes technology, IT, business, design and culture. HTW Berlin also offers a number of degree programmes in English.
Study structure
HTW Berlin offers degree programmes leading to a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree.
A Bachelor’s degree programme takes 6 or 7 semesters (3 to 3.5 years).
Subsequent Master’s programmes take 3 or 4 semesters (1.5 to 2 years).
Courses and examinations
The degree programme consists of various modules with seminars, tutorials and seminar-style courses (similar to lectures, only smaller).
Examinations usually take place at the end of each semester.
Academic achievements are measured in credit points (ECTS), whereby one semester corresponds to approximately 30 ECTS.
Practical orientation
As a University of Applied Sciences, our degree programmes emphasise practical relevance.
HTW Berlin has over 100 modern laboratories for the purposes of practical teaching.
All teaching staff have practical experience - a significant difference to many university employees.
A specialised internship is a compulsory part of the Bachelor’s degree programmes.
The study information days and a visit to theHTW Berlin Student Advisory Servicecan help with study orientation.
HTW Berlin offers a series of study information days, including
thestudy information daysfor the Bachelor’s degree programmes in June and December.
“Match your Master”in May.
theWork Exhibitionfor design and culture degree programmes in July.
Both degrees areformally equivalent. You can transfer to a university or higher education institution and complete a Master’s degree regardless of where you completed your Bachelor’s degree. A doctorate — currently still in cooperation with a university — is also possible at a higher education institution.
The difference lies in thepractical orientation: Universities of Applied Sciences, formerly known as polytechnics, offer more practically-oriented degree programmes in smaller groups. Universities, on the other hand, traditionally place more emphasis on theoretical foundations and research.
These days, many employers place less emphasis on the type of university and more onindividual qualifications, grades and practical experience. This is also shown by our excellent results in the WiWo ranking, a nationwide ranking of recruiters and HR managers.
There are several compelling reasons to study at HTW Berlin:
Quality of teaching: HTW Berlin regularly tops academic rankings. All degree programmes are accredited, i.e. the quality of studies is regularly reviewed.
Practical relevance: HTW Berlin offers an attractive combination of academic research and state-of-the-art practical know-how. Courses take place in small groups of a maximum of 40 students, which ensures a personal teaching and learning atmosphere.
Modern equipment: HTW Berlin boasts over 100 laboratories featuring modern equipment that enable the practical application of the knowledge learnt.
Career opportunities: an internship integrated within every Bachelor’s degree programme and the university’s ownCareer Servicesfacilitate the transition to the professional world.
International experience: students have the opportunity to gain experience abroad at one of our 150partner universities. Aninternship abroadduring your studies is also possible. In the Bachelor’s degree programme,foreign language trainingis an important part of the curriculum. HTW Berlin has its own Foreign Languages Centre for this purpose.
To apply for aBachelor’s degree programmeat HTW Berlin, you need a general or subject-specific higher education entrance qualification orrelevant vocational training. Some degree programmes may have additionalrequirementssuch as pre-study internships, aptitude tests or language skills.
A first academic degree in a specific subject is required when applying for aMaster’s degree programme.
Theapplication periodsand theapplication procedurediffer depending on the degree type (Bachelor’s or Master’s), higher education entrance qualification and admission requirements (aptitude test, etc.).
No, you cannot apply to HTW Berlin before or after the officialapplication periods. After the regular application deadlines have expired, thewebsite “Vacant study places”contains information regarding study places still available in individual degree programmes.
At HTW Berlin, you pay asemester fee. You should also budget for an estimated 1,250 EUR per month in living expenses. Design degree programmes incur some material costs. You can reduce your study expenses by living at home and having family health insurance.
We provide onlinetips on finding accommodation— from student residences to shared apartments — and on financial aid, e.g. housing benefit.
Various sources of funding for students exist, includingjobs,BAföG,scholarshipsandfinancial support in emergencies.
We encourage students to apply for a scholarship, because for the vast majority of scholarship holders, it is no longer just grades that count. Students’ life circumstances and the conditions under which someone studies, performs and gets involved in other activities or volunteering are now of greater importance.
At HTW Berlin, you can get involved in many study projects and study initiatives or participate in one of thestudent bodies. Theuniversity sportsdepartment offers an extensive sports programme featuring numerous sports courses.
TheStudent Advisory Servicewill be happy to assist you. The Study Information Days also offer a good opportunity to find out about the degree programmes on offer at HTW Berlin.
At HTW Berlin, you can contact theRepresentative for Disabled and Chronically Ill Students, who will be happy to advise you. We will support you with your overall application, including special applications, help you to apply for admission in cases of hardship and advise you on compensating for disadvantages experienced during your studies.
FAQ for first-year students
After you have accepted the offer of a place at the university, you must submit the enrolment application attached with the PDF cover letter as well as the documents/certificates listed there and transfer the semester fee. In addition, your health insurance provider must send yourhealth insurance certificateto HTW Berlin. After you have submitted all documents, you will be enrolled by the Student Services Department. The processing time is approx. two weeks. You will then receive an email to activate your HTW Berlin account, which unfortunately often ends up in spam.
Thewelcome event for first-year studentstakes place during the first week of study. An invitation will be sent to your HTW Berlin email address.
The university also holds an enrolment ceremony for all students and specific events in your degree programme. It is wise to use the Freshers’ Week to obtain important information and establish some initial contacts among your fellow students.
All important dates and deadlines for the semester can be found in theacademic calendar.
At the beginning of your degree programme, you do not have to decide on your courses yourself. If you are studying full-time in the first semester, you will be automatically registered for all compulsory courses in that semester. Your degree programme contact partner will inform you of elective courses. You can view your personal timetable approximately two weeks before the start of the semester in the LSF campus management system under “My timetable”. From the second semester onwards, you are responsible forcourse enrolmentyourself. First-year students on part-time programmes enrol on their own courses from the outset.
WiFiis available for you to use at our campus locations.
The University Library regularly offerstraining courses and guided tours— including at the beginning of the semester.
The best thing to do is to go to theFresher’s week eventsfor your degree programme. Other options: Attendsports coursesrun by the university sports department, take part in student initiatives or join one of thestudent bodies.
Ask Özgün: FAQ for students
FAQ for students
All important dates and deadlines for the semester can be found in theacademic calendar. The time periods for course enrolment can be found in the coloured time schedule on theLSF campus management homepage.
There-registration deadlinecan be found in the academic calendar. Please note: re-registration can only take place if no health insurance contributions are outstanding.
All importantinformation on course enrolment, in particular on the individual phases from registration to the allocation of remaining places, has been compiled online for you.
Information onregistration and repeating examinationscan be found online. The time periods forcourse enrolmentare shown in the coloured time schedule on theLSF campus management homepage.
Information about the thesis, from application to publication, can be found online. Please remember: in order to apply to write the final thesis, a certain number of credit points must have been earned (see Study and Examination Regulations). For Bachelor’s degree programmes, all modules from the first three semesters must have been successfully completed.
Your written examination must be an independent examination. Certain resources are permitted for online examinations. These may include personal notes, printed works (e.g. textbooks, lecture notes) or internet sources. Your lecturers will inform you exactly which resources are permitted. Please pay attention to these specifications and ask if you are unsure. The principle of good scientific practice also applies in a written examination.
If texts or key ideas are taken from documents accompanying the examination, these must be clearly labelled as quotations in order not to be considered plagiarism. To be clear: any communication with others (with the exception of the examination supervisor) and the verbatim copying of text passages (including other or jointly pre-formulated texts) without the use of inverted commas and references (“copy & paste”) are not permitted.
Please bear in mind that the principle of good scientific practice also applies in a written examination. If you take texts or key ideas from documents accompanying the examination, these must be clearly labelled as quotations or they will be considered instances of plagiarism. If violations are categorised as attempted cheating, this will result in the work being marked “unsatisfactory” (5.0), with an examination attempt deemed to have been made! In particularly serious cases of attempted cheating (e.g. repeated attempts to cheat, full plagiarism, organised collaboration between several people), this may result in your exmatriculation.
Examination modalities will be announced by the lecturer at the beginning of the semester. In principle, teaching staff may decide for themselves how they organise their courses and examinations. However, they must adhere to legal requirements. If you believe that decisions have not been made correctly or rules have been applied incorrectly, please refer to §18 of the Study and Examination Framework Regulations for Bachelor’s and Master’s Programmes at HTW Berlin (RStPO - Ba/Ma), “Objections to the assessment of module examinations”. You can also contact theStudents' Union (AStA)for advice or support.
It is best to proceed as follows:
Request an examination review: contact your lecturer immediately after the examination results have been announced and request an appointment to review the examination documentation. The evaluation of your examination will subsequently be explained to you.
Submitting a complaint to the Examination Board: if you consider the explanation inadequate, or if you still have doubts, you can submit a written complaint to the Examination Board of your degree programme within six weeks of the announcement of the results. This complaint must be well-founded. The Examination Board will examine your objections and ask the lecturer to submit a statement. After about three weeks, you will receive a reply from the Examination Board via the examination administration department, including instructions on how to appeal.
In case of organisational or content-related problems, please contact the Dean’s Office of your faculty. If your objection is rejected by the Examination Board, you can then contact the Examinations Office. TheFaculty Student Councils (FSR) oder the Students' Union (AStA)are also on hand to provide support.
Information about thespecialised internshipis available online. It is necessary to complete a certain number of modules before commencing the compulsory internship (see the Study and Examination Regulations).
The International Office at HTW Berlin supports you both in planning asemester abroadand in researchingfinancing options for your internship abroad. It is advisable to begin gathering information and start the planning process between 12 and 18 months in advance.
Yes, HTW Berlin offers the option ofpart-time study.  Inform yourself in advance of any consequences of part-time study status (in terms of student health insurance, student housing, residence permit/visa, trainee student contracts, social benefits such as BAföG (educational support benefits), etc.).
If you are unable to take module examinations in full or in part in the prescribed form, you can apply forcompensation of disadvantages. The prerequisite for this is that you are not responsible for the reasons (e.g. chronic illness, caring responsibilities, disability,pregnancy and materny leave).
You have various options. For instance, HTW Berlin offers:
special regulationsincluding preferential course enrolment, alternative examination criteria (compensation for disadvantages) as well as extended deadlines for final theses.
the option to record courses with the lecturers’ agreement.
the option to contact the Family Support Centre, which provideschildcare options(incl. emergency care).
the option to change topart-time studies or defer degree programmes.
Please contact theStudent Advisory Service, which will be happy to advise you.
Please notify HTW Berlin of your pregnancy and observe the regulations stipulated in theMaternity Protection Act.
TheStudent Advisory Serviceprovides answers to questions related to studies. It also advises those with difficulties as regards learning academic material or who are experiencing social problems.
ThePsychological Counselling Serviceoffers support in case of psychological stress - regardless of whether this is directly related to your studies (feeling overwhelmed, procrastination, exam nerves, etc.) or not (private stress such as loneliness, homesickness, bereavement, suspected depressive episode, etc.).
The organisationstudierendenWERK Berlinoffers a wide range of counselling and advisory services, including psychotherapeutic counselling, advice on financing your studies and writing guidance.
TheCentral Anti-Discrimination Office of HTW Berlinconducts initial interviews as well as individual, group and conflict counselling for all member groups of HTW Berlin. It also acts as aComplaints Officein accordance with the General Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz).
TheConfidentiality Team at HTW Berlinis a central point of contact for those affected by and witnessing discrimination, especially sexualised discrimination and violence.
FAQ for Alumni
You will beexmatriculatedas soon as you have passed the final oral examination. If you are not registered to take the final oral examination, your student status ends at the end of the previous semester.
It takes around 12 weeks to process the final documents, as there are numerous steps that need to be completed before the certificate is finalised. As soon as the documents are ready for collection, you will be informed by e-mail. In this message, you will be asked to indicate whether you would like to collect the documents in person on site or whether you would like them to be sent by post.
The graduation ceremony takes place in June on the Wilhelminenhof campus. Please register to become part of ourAlumni Networkto receive an invitation.
Register with theHTW Berlin Alumni Networkin order to receive invitations to HTW events, etc.
Alumni-Netzwerk
You can take advantage of theCareer Servicesoffers for up to one year after graduation.
You can also booksports courses at HTW Berlinat our employee rate.
You can show a student your everyday working life for a day as part of the PraxisTag (trial practical day) concept.
Accept a teaching assignment at HTW Berlin.
Some degree programmes, e.g. the Bachelor’s degree programme “Economics and Politics”, have their own alumni networks offering lecture series.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service