Accepting your study place
Table of contents
Offer of admission via hochschulstart.de
If you have applied for admission-restricted Bachelor’s study programmes via the dialogue-oriented service procedure (DOSV), you will receive an offer of admission for up to 12 applications. Only once you have accepted an offer of admission onhochschulstart.dewill the notice of admission be generated in theapplication portal of HTW Berlinand you can then enrol.
Thisdoes not applyif you have applied for the following study programmes:
Master’s study programme
Bachelor’s study programme with aptitude test
Bachelor’s study programme without admission restriction
Notice of admission
To accept your study place, you need to
enrol online in theapplication portal
sign and date the application for enrolment/acceptance declaration, then send the original document tobewerbungsunterlagen+<Ihre Bewerbernummer>@htw-berlin.deand
transfer the semester fee to the specified bank account by the date stated on your notice of admission.
Documents required for enrolment
The application for enrolment/acceptance declaration contains a list of outstanding documents that must be submitted by enrolment. This applies regardless of whether or not you are already enrolled on a different study programme at HTW Berlin.
Thegeneral deadlineis the start of the semester:1 April for the summer semester1 October for the winter semester
1 April for the summer semester
1 October for the winter semester
Only exception: For Master’s study programmes thedeadline for degree certificateswhich were not available at the time of application can be extended. This is stated in the acceptance declaration.
Please see the information onproof of health insurance.
Enrolment
When you have sent us your signed application for enrolment, paid the semester fee and submitted all documents required for enrolment, you will be automatically enrolled at HTW Berlin.
HTW StudentCard
After successfulenrolmentwe will send your login information for the Campus Management System (LSF) via E-Mail to you.
If you submit all thedocuments required for enrolment,you will receive a QR code in theCampus Management Systemto create an HTW StudentCard at thecard terminals at the HTW Berlin.
Taking up your study place
Forall study programmes conducted in German, the following deadlines apply for submitting all enrolment-relevant documents, receiving your login data for your HTW account and starting your studies:
15 April for the summer semester
15 October for the winter semester
Forall study programmes conducted in English, extended deadlines apply:
30 April for the summer semester
30 October for the winter semester
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service