Health insurance
Table of contents
Electronic Student Reporting Procedure
In January 1st, 2022, the electronic student-reporting procedure became effective and is mandatory for both sides. Further information can be accessed via visitingGKV Spitzenverbandonline.
According to§ 199a SGB V,  HTW Berlin and the health insurance companies have corresponding mutual  reporting obligations for the proper examination, determination and  implementation of health insurance for students.All notifications between the health insurance companies and HTW Berlin are made completely electronicallyand therefore faster, which contributes to a sustainable optimisation of the notification process.
On this basis, the presentation of the health insurance card or a written membership certificate is not sufficient as proof of health insurance.
Please note that private health insurance companies do not participate in this notification procedure. In these cases, the health insurance notification must always be requested from one of the statutory health insurance companies.
Are you a new student at HTW Berlin?
For your enrolment, please ask the German statutory health insurance company you have chosen to report your insurance status to us using thenotification reason 10.
The sender number of HTW Berlin is:H0002550
If you are covered by family insurance or compulsory student insurance,please contact your own health insurance company directly. If you change your health insurance provider at the start of your studies, please also arrange for your new health insurance provider to send us notification reason 11 (change of health insurance provider).
If you are privately insured or are insured through your parents  because they receive government aid or have private family health  insurance,please contact a German statutory health insurance company and submit the proof of your health insurance cover. The insurance notification is submitted after exemption* from the statutory health insurance obligation.
If you are insured through free medical cover,please contact a German statutory health insurance company and submit the proof of free medical care. The insurance notification is submitted after exemption* from the statutory health insurance obligation.
*Exemption from the statutory health insurance requirement is generally  valid for the entire duration of your studies and can only be applied  for at the beginning of your study programme.Only exception: If you  have not enrolled at a university for at least four weeks after your  Bachelor’s degree by the beginning of your Master’s study programme, you  can decide again whether you want to change to a statutory health  insurance provider.
Your re-registration is blocked because the proof of insurance is missing?
There are two reasons why a new health insurance certificate may also be required during your studies.
You have changed your health insurance company.
The previous health insurance company informs us of the end of the insurance. Your new health insurance company must then send us a new insurance notification, using thenotification reason 11. You are welcome to also inform us of your change of health insurance company via e-mail using our contact form.
You are in delay with the payment of health insurance contributions.
Your insurance status is therefore unclear and your health insurance company reports this to us. If you have made your payments and are fully insured again, your health insurance company must report thenotification reason 13to us immediately. This will automatically cancel the blocking of your re-registration.
Insurance types: Statutory or private health insurance?
You require valid health insurance for your enrolment and for the duration of your studies at HTW Berlin. The mandatory insurance requirement for students ends upon completion of your study programme or at the end of your fourteenth subject semester or at the latest in the semester in which you reach the age of 30.
However, until the age of 30 or the 14th semester of study, you must generally be insured in a statutory health insurance. Only in exceptional cases should you take out private insurance. Here it is important to know that you can then no longer change to a statutory health insurance for the duration of your studies. In this case, you must contact a statutory health insurance company and apply there for your exemption from the statutory health insurance obligation.The following options exist:
Family health insurance:Up to the age of 25 or if you are married, you can be covered by your family health insurance providing you do not exceed a certain income threshold.
Statutory health insurance up to the age of 30:If you do not qualify for family health insurance and do not work for more than 20 hours per week on either an employed or self-employed basis, you must take out mandatory student health insurance. You can choose the health insurance provider yourself – the student rate is the same with every provider.
Statutory health insurance from the age of 30:Students from the age of 30 no longer receive a student rate. You can voluntarily continue to insure yourself at the standard rate.
Private health insurance:You can take out private health insurance or be covered through your parents if they receive government aid or have private family health insurance.
Free medical care:If you were a professional soldier, you will generally continue to be insured with free medical care for a period of two years after the end of your service.
Scope of health insurance protection
Make sure that your health insurance coverage includes the following:
Medical and dental treatment
Provision of medicines, bandages, therapeutic products and other aids
Hospital treatment
Medical services for rehabilitation
Services related to pregnancy and birth
Additional information for international students
The general rule is that you must have health insurance in order to be able to study in Germany.
Germany has concluded social insurance agreements witha number of countries, including Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area. If you come from one of these countries and are covered by statutory health insurance there, you can apply for this insurance cover to be recognised by a German statutory health insurance provider. A European health insurance card (EHIC) is normally required. You can apply for an EHIC free of charge from your health insurance provider.
Please contact aGerman statutory health insurance companyupon enrolment and show them your EHIC. Ask the health insurance company toreportyour insurance status to us using theregistration reason M 10 HTW Berlin(sender numberH0002550).
If you areunable to obtain health insurance coverage from a provider in your home country, you must take out health insurance in Germany. Please take out a German health insurance policy directly before you travel to Germany or immediately after your arrival. In Germany there are two types of health insurance: statutory and private. However, up to the age of 30 or the fourteenth subject semester you must be insured with a statutory health insurance provider. Only in exceptional cases should you be privately insured. It is important to be aware that if you have private health insurance, you cannot change to statutory health insurance for the duration of your studies. If HTW Berlin recognises your private health insurance, in order to enrol you require confirmation that you are exempt from the statutory health insurance requirement.
If youexceed the age of 30 or the fourteenth subject semester during your study time in Germany, you can continue to be insured with statutory health insurance with a higher monthly premium. If you have already reached the age of 29 when you start your studies, you can only take out private health insurance.
Travel insurance does not provide sufficient health insurance coverfor the duration of your studies in Germany and will not be accepted as proof of health insurance. Travel health insurance only applies for your visa and entry into Germany as long as the semester has not yet started.
According to the Health Insurance Lawparticipants on a preparatory course („Studienkolleg“)are no regular students, even if they are enrolled at a German university. Therefore statutory insurance is not compulsory. Generally, they do not fulfil the requirements for a voluntary insurance with a statutory health insurance provider. Participants on the university preparatory course can only take out a private health insurance policy with a private health insurance provider.
According to the Health Insurance Lawparticipants on a preparatory course („Studienkolleg“)are no regular students, even if they are enrolled at a German university. Therefore statutory insurance is not compulsory. Generally, they do not fulfil the requirements for a voluntary insurance with a statutory health insurance provider. Participants on the university preparatory course can only take out a private health insurance policy with a private health insurance provider.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service