Innovation through cooperation
Transfer projects at HTW Berlin form the basis for cooperation between researchers and companies. Companies can tap the necessary skills and technologies to develop solutions tailored to their needs.
Research dialogue
HTW Berlin organises numerous events, for example the Long Night of the Sciences and the Science Symposium. Researchers shed light on current topics in business and society, offering insights into the latest scientific findings and possible solutions.
Collaborative learning in practice
In the semester students spend developing innovative solutions for companies that address real problems. The students have an opportunity to learn how companies operate and gain first-hand experience of innovation processes.
Students support sustainability
The student initiative for sustainability at HTW Berlin, einleuchtend e.V., is dedicated to implementing ecological projects within the university. For example, a mobile solar-powered music system — the Solar Sound System — was used at the Long Night of the Sciences.
Transfer & cooperation
Table of contents
Transfer & Innovation
Regional and international cooperationHTW Berlin cooperates with regional and international institutions as well as key players in the areas of science, business, management and culture. As a research partner, HTW Berlin is involved in numerous education, culture and regional infrastructure projects as well as development initiatives and economic development programmes.
R&D projects for the practice worldHTW Berlin projects are directly related to the practice world and are developed in close cooperation with authorities, organisations and companies. The research projects often result in inventions and patents.
Service from a single source at the Cooperation Centre for Applied SciencesKONTAKTserves at the central point of contact for all cooperation enquiries. It connects people with the right experts at the university and helps to get collaborative research activities off to a flying start.
Research communication
Research results for the publicHTW Berlin holds numerous events and fairs relating to science and research every year. All HTW Berlin projects are presented in the university’s online research catalogue. Publications, scientific lectures and events can also be filtered and viewed according to scientific field or industry. The “Beiträge und Positionen” series (Papers and Positions) explores current research focus areas that scientists are currently working on at the university.
Studies & careers
Study projects & initiativesHTW Berlin  students are familiarised with the needs of the practice world through  internships, application-based degree theses and interdisciplinary  projects. Working in interdisciplinary teams, they develop creative  solutions and bring back their findings to the university.
A network with added valueThe  career and alumni portal of HTW Berlin connects students, alumni and  companies. HTW Berlin actively stays in contact with its alumni in order  to learn from the experience they gain while working in practice –  whether as mentors or through a teaching position.
Career and Entrepreneurship ServiceTheCareer Servicefacilitates contact between students/alumni and  companies. The Entrepreneurship Service provides advice on the subject  of starting up a business.
Social engagement
HTW Berlin is committed to using its pool of knowledge and expertise to promote regional development and takes its ecological and social responsibilities very seriously.
Cooperation with workshops for the disabledHTW Berlin maintains cooperation partnerships with workshops for the disabled. The university has received two integration awards in recognition of its activities in this area.
Service Learning, CSR programme and student initiativesService Learning offers students at HTW Berlin the opportunity to do voluntary work and receive accreditation as part of their study programme. The CSR programme encourages students to get involved in charitable study projects. There are also a number of student initiatives to support ecological projects or social engagement.
Further education
Life-long learningIf you want to stay competitive in the professional world, it is important to continually gain further qualifications. TheDivision of Continuing Educationoffers further education seminars and distance-learning study programmes for life-long learning.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service