University profile
Table of contents
Studies – practical and international
HTW Berlin is a renowned University of Applied Sciences in Germany offering a wide range of courses in the fields oftechnology, computer science, business, law, culture and design.
Students benefit fromexcellent support, modern labs, a personal atmosphere and international contacts.
HTW Berlin is proud of the fact that its students and alumni frequently winawards at national and international competitions. The university regularly receivesgood ratingsin the corresponding rankings. For example, many of its degree programmes feature in the top UAS rankings published by the business magazine Wirtschaftswoche.
If you are looking for apractice-oriented degree programme with a wide range of career options, HTW Berlin is an excellent choice.
Research and transfer - interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary
HTW Berlin focuses onapplication-oriented research in cooperation with partnersfrom the fields of business, industry, science, culture and politics.
Research at HTW Berlin focuseson the optimum use of renewable energies and resource efficiency, innovative methods for health, care and life, potential uses of digital technologies for the economy and society, aspects of sustainable management, entrepreneurship and the future of work as well as artistic and creative approaches from the fields of design and culture to solve challenges facing society as a whole.
Ourtransfer activitiesinclude knowledge and technology transfer, practical education and training for young people, and third mission activities. In this way, HTW Berlin aims to create innovative offerings and expand its commitment in the Berlin-Brandenburg region.
For a sustainable future
HTW Berlin is committed to sustainability and seeks to make an important contribution to theUnited Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
The topicsenvironmental and climate protection, diversity and justiceform an integral focus of studies, teaching and research at HTW Berlin.
Current practical measuresinclude the Climate Protection Agreement with the State of Berlin and the diversity audit of the Stifterverband initiative.
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service