System accreditation
HTW Berlin is the first university in Berlin to receive the quality seal from the Accreditation Council. System accreditation status means that HTW Berlin is able to guarantee the quality standards of its study programmes on the basis of its quality management system.
European Digital Woman Award
HTW Berlin is the first "Digital Impact Organisation of the Year". The award was presented as part of the European Digital Woman Award 2013. HTW Berlin was praised for its innovative efforts to promote the digital skills of girls and women during their studies and professional careers.
Special integration award of the State of Berlin / "Barrier-free Berlin" seal
HTW Berlin strives to promote the integration of people with handicaps. The award was presented for the disabled-friendly access of both campus locations and its close cooperation with the Lichtenberg workshop for the disabled and the Stephanus workshops.
University of High Performance Sports
HTW Berlin is an official "Partner University of High Performance Sports” in association with the HU, TU, FU, Charité, HWR, Beuth Hochschule and the H:G University for Health & Sports, Technology & Arts (H:G). The partner universities promote the dual careers of student athletes in an exemplary manner.
Barrier-free Berlin
In 2007 the Treskowallee Campus was awarded the "Barrier-free Berlin" quality seal in recognition of its unlimited accessibility for the disabled. One year later the Wilhelminenhof Campus also received the quality seal.
exzellent: kooperation
The Stephanus sheltered workshops and HTW Berlin were delighted to win the "Best Cooperation" category in 2012. The Federal Association of Workshops for Adapted Work presented the award in recognition of the WaschBAR concept, which combines catering and a service centre on the Wilhelminenhof Campus.
"Premium D-A-CH" alumni award
The Career Services department received the "Premium D-A-CH" alumni award in 2012. The jury was impressed by the department’s close links with companies in the region and its combination of alumni management and career services.
Awards
Table of contents
University
Certificate "Shaping Diversity" as part of the diversity audit of Stifterverband
‘University with strong gender equality’ award as part of the Female Professors Programme 2030
Total E-Quality2002, 2005, 2008, 2011, 2015, 2018, 2021
European Digital Woman Award2013
Special integration award of the State of Berlin 2011
Barrier-free Berlin 2007
exzellent: kooperation 2012
EQUAL integration award "Science without barriers" 2007
"Premium D-A-CH" alumni award 2012
University of High Performance Sports
Students and alumni
Staff
Themen
Information for
About HTW Berlin
Popular pages
Portals
Service